People were noticing all throughout this
time that Forestl seemed like he was
unraveling.
He started developing these weird
nervous ticks. He said, "I'm [music]
being followed by strange foreign
looking men."
He started dipping his fingers into
glasses of water all the time and just
wetting his lips.
I drink only distilled water or rain
water.
All right. [music] See what you're
using. couple of big tough Navy guys
grab him and throw him the hell out the
window. I'm absolutely convinced that's
what happened.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And in the 80s it felt like maybe the US
moved from a strategy of secrecy and
denial to flood the zone. And flood the
zone doesn't mean put out BS. It means
put out partial truths and put out a
lot.
People did see it emerge from the water,
circled their transport ship twice,
totally silent. He said there were high
winds. This thing should have been
bouncing around in the wind. It was rock
solid.
He writes in his diary at 3:30 a.m. on
August 12th, 1825. The Night Watch
reported this orange spherical object
rise from the ocean.
Let's get down to the fundamental
reality here. We are dealing with a
phenomenon. Yes,
it is a reality shattering phenomenon.
I do believe that there's a good reason
to think that we have been monitored or
observed for a long time.
It's not that we're being too crazy and
too fr. We're not being we're not going
out there enough.
I think that's right.
Here with the great Richard Dolan, we
just did this amazing um kind of live
show for a bunch of people. It
was a lot of fun.
It was a lot of fun. I told you
afterwards, I think you're the easiest
person to interview because uh you know,
I just have to tee you off and then you
you just go. Uh and uh yeah, it's an
honor to be here. It's a long time
coming for me. And um maybe what we
should start with here in this kind of,
you know, private setting is I'm curious
to know how you got into UFO research to
begin with and who your inspirations
are.
Yeah, I have a lot of inspirations in my
life. Some in some in this field, some
beyond. Um this is a story I've told a
few times. I don't want to sound like
I'm I'm rehashing it, but I want to I
want to try to do it fresh. Um I was
always like a very like driven young
young person and um I always felt like
there was this very intellectualized
destiny that I wanted to pursue. I
didn't really know what it would be.
I've always been drawn to history and
politics. Um discovered a real deep love
of literature when I was in my my early
20s and uh that's remained with me. But
as a young person trying to make a
professional life, I thought well I
would I would finish a PhD in history
and teach at a university. Uh when I was
in my youngest portion of that, you
know, I had I was totally unqualified to
to try to do what I ended up doing. I
was studying German history. Uh my
German language was minimal at best. And
here I was studying the uh basically the
Jay Ed Gahoover of Adoan Bismar's 19th
century Germany
uh back in the 1850s and60s. was a man
named Vilhelmsteber
and I'm like, "Oh, this is an
interesting guy." And I'm diving into
his career and I thought, "I'm going to
do a dissertation on him."
I wrote 150 pages or whatever and it
failed. I just it was I was I was unable
to crack uh Wilhelm Steer. He was an
interesting guy. He did blackmailed
people. He created a brothel in Berlin
in 1870. He would take pictures, all of
his stuff.
He literally was politicians a Jagger
Hoover of German unification.
Absolutely. Interesting. And it was
amazing. But anyway, so I I bailed out
of that. Uh that was when uh the Berlin
Wall came down. I was I was there. I was
in Berlin during that whole period,
1989. I was trying to trying to wrap
this thing up and and it just failed.
So I go back to the States and uh
and I I left for about two years. I was
studying at the University of Rochester
in upstate New York. And
and then I went back and I thought, you
know what, my my German sucked. So why
don't I just do like American history
cuz I know that language and I went in
and I focused on United States
diplomatic history
and I did great. I was really really
into it. uh I was very deeply and by
this time I was in my early 30s so I was
a bit more mature and I was studying uh
Harry Truman
and his presidency and I was doing a lot
of Soviet stuff too but [snorts]
I uh ended up studying 1950 national
security strategy just before the
outbreak of war in Korea and you know I
was like who cares but that was what I
was doing at the time and I wrote
another 125 150 pages of a dissertation
on uh that and which I did not finished.
So, I had two unfinished dissertations.
Uh, and I was in a bookstore, just like
a ordinary bookstore, one day in
Syracuse, New York, and I saw a copy of
Timothy Good's very classic work, Above
Top Secret.
Oh, yeah.
And it was a subtitle of that book that
caught my attention. It was the
worldwide UFO coverup. Like, oh, wow.
So, here we are. It's like 1994, so I'm
about 32 years old. And
uh I flipped through the book and I'm
like, I know that name. I read his
diaries. I know that department. Wait,
what? UFOs? What what is this? Like it
was this great uh cognitive dissonance.
And I thought this is this looks like a
fairly serious book. He's got a variety
of documents. It looks like his research
is at least halfway decent. Yeah.
Um
and my question wasn't are UFOs real?
Um, my question wasn't like are there
abductions or are there crop circles? I
wasn't down that road. My question was
simply
even if this was a mistake, like if they
were mistakenly interested in in this
UFO thing back in or the flying saucers
back in the 40s, how come I never read
about it in any academic history book
like ever?
Even if it was a mistake. Like would you
not think that's kind of interesting?
You go back to 194748
and uh I'm reading here in Tim Good's
book like the Air Force and the Navy
like they were totally into this and
you're in the early cold war. Yeah,
that's damned interesting. And so I
thought well I bought the book and I
just went down that rabbit hole and I
thought I just spend like two or three
months uh and I just want to resolve for
myself like was this a thing or not a
thing and that was it. And then I
figured like I would just leave and go
on to my life.
And those are my favorite famous last
words. So I I read Tim's book and it was
like this is a very good book. Started
going online back with the baby internet
as it existed. All the news groups, you
suck. No, you suck. I'm going to kill
you. You know the bulletin boards as
they existed in the '9s. But there were
some good UFO bulletin boards. and I
went down that and the next thing I knew
I just I left I left the University of
Rochester and
and it was a a real crisis in my life
because I'm in my early 30s. I'm like I
got all this ambition. I wanted to do
something. I wanted to teach at a
university. But I just lost the belief.
I lost the belief in that whole system.
I lost the belief in academia. I lost
the belief
um that I I wanted to do that anymore.
And I was totally obsessed
with UFOs. I would I would remember for
an entire year I'd lie in bed staring at
the ceiling thinking
all of these if thens. Like if if this
is real, then was I totally wrong about
everything I thought I knew about
history?
What What is the truth then about the
Truman administration that I was
studying or Eisenhower or Kennedy? like
there had to be this whole subterranean
reality
that I was oblivious to. And when you're
when you think you're a smart person and
you think you're well educated, that's
the hardest
because you want to like you've got your
ego there. I had my ego
like absolutely I want to be like I'm
I'm a smart guy. I think I know
everything but wait oh wow I missed this
whole thing. That's not easy to admit.
No, it's not when your identity is so uh
tied up in the system, the system's
given you positive feedback until that
point to just accept, you know, that
sort of crumbling and and finding
something new, I think is really is
really tough. But you do you read
something like Timothy Good's you know
above top secret and you're like this is
a whole ontology separate from you know
the reality that I know and it's so well
researched and it you know if you
associate you know scops around UFOs
with like you know American intel like
he's coming up from British Ministry of
Defense he starts with the Battle of Los
Angeles but he he goes through like the
really the UK history and
I'm impressed that you just can roll
right through that. I mean, I just
tossed Tim Good out there and you're
like, "Yeah, yeah."
Well, he's amazing. I mean, you got to,
you know, like you got to pay respects
to your stuff. You got to pay respect.
You got to know that that the these are
canonical. I think, you know, works.
Today's episode is sponsored by Incogn.
You ever Google yourself and realize how
much of your personal info is just out
there? Your address, your phone number,
old jobs, even your relatives, all
online for anyone to see. There are
these companies called data brokers and
they make a living collecting and
selling that information without you
ever knowing it. They sell it to
marketers, recruiters, even risk
assessment firms. Worst case, it ends up
in the hands of scammers or identity
thieves. That's why I started using
Incogn. It's a service that
automatically contacts over 230 data
brokers and demands they delete your
personal data. And if your info ends up
online again, Incogn keeps going,
resubmitting removals on your behalf. I
didn't have to do anything after signing
up. It's just set it and forget it. I
also learned something wild. In the US,
people search sites are a separate
problem. They publish these creepy
dossas on you. Property records, family
info, even political affiliations.
Incogn has a custom removals feature
that targets those, too. So, if you care
about privacy, which if you're watching
this show, you probably do, give it a
try. Go to incogn.com/ameanalchemy
and use my code to get 60% off an annual
plan. Thank you to incogn for sponsoring
this episode.
In UFOs in the national security state,
you bring up this idea of a breakaway
civilization and you have Katherine
Austin Fitz, this former uh housing and
urban development employee uh who then
went on to be a consultant who's
[clears throat] uncovered trillions of
dollars worth of fraud.
Discrepancies in accounting. Yeah,
discrepancies in accounting. Um yeah,
there you go. It's a nice euphemism. Um
so what is a breakaway civilization and
what is the nature of the of the contact
that we're seeing? Yeah, it's an I
haven't really thought I haven't talked
a lot about the idea of a breakaway
civilization in a little while, but I
still think it's probably true. And uh
just to give a background, it was a a a
phrase that I coined um I don't know
about almost 20 years ago now. I do a
lot of reading of other types of
historians and I was reading historian
named Arnold Toinby. Some of you know of
him. He writes meta histories of
civilizations and I was kind of in that
headsp space and I thought you know what
is it that actually makes a civilization
distinctive and unique and I thought
well there's a lot of things there's
like your social structure and your
economy and your ideology your cosmology
and I thought you know if you really
think about the classified worlds
especially like assuming like the
Roswell event or other crash retrievals
happened you have this very very deep
classified structure that keeps the
technology and the science classified
away from you and away from me so that
we can't really look at it. And I
thought, well, what did they do with
those those uh breakthroughs in their
technology? Well, they're going to learn
new things and they're going to
privately maybe patent them and keep
them away from the rest of us and they
and they're just in danger of running
more and more away from this. Will they
have functional flying saucers one day?
Can they go off-world? Can they
encounter other beings and and all of
this? And I thought, well, they're
really actually kind of like a separate
civilization, one that's broken away
from our our own. And it was a it was a
totally theoretical idea. It still is, I
guess. But I think there's there's
evidence for it in a lot of different
ways. And so that's what I was talking
about. And I think it's a a kind of a a
breakaway group that has its own legal
protections and and all of that. So I've
known Katherine Austin Fitz for many
years. I absolutely admire her work.
She's a brilliant uh financial expert,
you could say. She did um she served
with the first uh George Bush senior
administration back in the late 80s
early 90s as assistant secretary of
housing and urban development. She told
a really story. It it should be funny
but it's actually uh really tragic. She
said when I I went into HUD I said I
want to look at I want to look at the
accounting. I want to look at all the
books. And they said well no you're not
you're not authorized to see that. She
says the hell I'm not authorized to see
that. So she finally got her way and she
said, "What happened when they brought
in the financial records?" She said,
"You know the old library carts with all
the books on them?" She said, "They
wheeled in one after another filled
stacked with papers like organized,
disorganized." And she's like, "God
could not pull this apart." She said,
"You need the greatest accountants in
the world to undo this god-awful mess."
And she concluded like this whole system
is designed so that it is impossible to
audit and that that was her start and
then she goes through four years of that
and she had her own uh amazing
tumultuous journey dealing with u
analyzing US government and and then and
then eventually looking into uh she
wrote a really great paper called the
myth of the rule of law. I highly
recommend it. Uh and then she told a
really interesting story about I think
in 1998 she was invited by um a
gentleman named John Peterson of the
Arlington Institute. John Peterson was
on many many short lists for DoD uh
Secretary of Defense position for years
and he she wrote about this and he said
we're doing a little get together uh of
a mini conference to discuss what it's
what it would be like in a world where
extraterrestrials are openly
acknowledged as living among us. And she
she said the biggest regret in my life
was not doing that. She she was afraid
because she at that time she
[clears throat] was looking at
connections of the US government and
drug trafficking intelligence
communities and and all of this and she
she knew that they were after her and
she was afraid that this was like a
setup and so she didn't do it but she I
think she came to regret that but anyway
that's Katherine and she's come to uh
look at uh discrepancies in financial um
doings of the Pentagon and the federal
government in general. So back in uh 01
uh Donald Remfeld famously uh before the
House Armed Services Committee in I
think July of 01 just before 911 this is
now the Bush administration were brand
new at this time. So in a sense what he
he's about to say was no skin off their
nose. This was really indicting Clinton
years. He said, "Yeah, we've looked at
the Pentagon records and there's 2 point
uh I think he said 2.3
well he he kept revising it, but
originally it was 2.3 trillion dollars
in u unaccounted expenditures." He said,
"If you can believe that chuckle,
chuckle, laugh, laugh in the house and
uh that became 2.1 trillion on September
10th. And then came 911."
And and then you never hear about this
again. That was kind of like gone. But a
few months later, there's a guy named
Dove Zachim who took over the um
accounting of all of that and he this is
like in 2002 and he's like, "Yeah, no,
we got to figure it out. It's all it's
all done. We've just, you know, had a
look at the books a little more
carefully and it's down to zero. We have
no more discrepancies." And literally,
that is what he said. But anyway, so
Katherine's been on top of this all this
all these years. And then the question
arises, does this mean the money's
missing or is it just you've got
accounting discrepancies where you're
not getting your books right? I I do
think a lot of it is that it doesn't
mean that $2.3 trillion got stolen, but
it does mean there's a lot of
opportunity for money to just go
missing. And uh one thing she has always
said is our our accounting, our global
financial system, she says, is like an
open window. It's not a closed system,
it's an open system. So, in other words,
the money goes out somewhere. And this
is where she and I really connected
because she's like, I think that this
idea of a breakaway civilization is
really right on. And I think some of
this money is going a lot of this money
is going to that uh to support and fund
and uh you know, keep that whole thing
secure.
And I I believe in her Tucker Carlson
interview she mentions your work and
he's like, "Where is all this money
going?" And she goes, "Well, talk to
Richard Dolan." And she goes, "Space."
very vaguely, but like you know the
implication is almost like they're
they're using this in some of these, you
know, some of this off the books UFO
research. I believe also that Jordan
that not Jordan, John Peterson story
where they're doing a a simulation of uh
you know uh uh extraterrestrial contact
uh at the Arlington Institute. Uh this
is from a researcher named Linda
Thompson. It's very active on Twitter.
She's great. Um she uh
we know Linda. Yeah. She said that um
John Peterson promised to show uh
Katherine Austin Fitz a UFO if she would
stop engaging in her research.
So [laughter]
I don't think I caught that one. That's
that's interesting. Yeah.
I don't know. Um
Yeah. Interesting.
Do Do you think,
by the way, John I don't know if I
should say this or not. John Peterson
and his wife uh along with uh James
Woolsey, CIA director at the time, and
his wife were the people who invited
Steven Greer to a uh
dinner in the early 90s in which Greer
has many times talked about this, so I'm
not really spilling any beans here. Just
kind of interesting connections going on
here.
And I think you interviewed him.
I did.
Yeah. So, I don't know if that ever came
up. I don't know if it was an interview,
but um [laughter]
um um so uh what so you have all
trillions of dollars off the books.
She's talking about deep underground
military bases and facilities.
Do we have documentation that this
exists and how far have we made it?
Presumably, some of this might be
getting siphoned off. You know, we all
probably believe that there's some
reality to the UFO story.
Is some of this money being spent on
reverse engineering UFOs?
Well, all we can say is I think so. We
think so. Is there proof? That's a hard
thing for me to say. I don't I don't
know what I can say in terms of proof.
There's a tremendous amount of good
research showing that we have the the
these so-called dums, deep underground
military bases. I don't think there's
any question that that's real. We all
know that there are such things. Um I
used to work kind of closely with a
gentleman named Richard Ser uh who's
done a lot of work on underground base
construction. and he went through the
documentation. I think he made a very
very strong case that even back in the
in the 40s and 50s we were looking the
military was looking strong about how to
go deep you know partially it's just a
lot of it's legit you know if they're
worried about like nuclear war nuclear
exchange how do we have secure
underground facilities that are not that
are impervious to attack uh but of
course a lot of other things can can
happen in in those things not just uh
underground but potentially
on in the oceans if if this is I don't
think this is necessarily impossible if
you have the ability to go under the
ocean floor at least in maybe the shelf
areas um where they're a little more
shallow. There's a lot of possibilities
here. In terms of proof, it it's
difficult. You know, a lot of this stuff
is hidden very very well, hidden in
plain sight perhaps. But to answer your
question, I I don't know if I can answer
it. I
I think all of these are are somewhat
unanswerable questions, but you're as
qualified as anybody. What is your
opinion of these new sightings of
unidentified objects?
With all due respect to the Air Force, I
believe that some of them will prove to
be of interplanetary origin.
My mind just went here and it's somewhat
of a nonsequittor, but midcentury UFO
stuff. I remember watching a video of
you talking about um a letter that FDR
had written about a very destructive uh
weapon that America had acquired and uh
that that had come from
extraterrestrials and you thought that
that was maybe a valid letter. Is am I
getting this wrong?
Oh um well I'm trying to think you might
uh there's the so-called majestic
documents. You know, one of the people
at this conference where we are is Ryan
Wood, who's a very good friend of mine.
I've known Ryan for years. He and his
his late father, Dr. Bob Wood, of
course, are the curators uh of the
Majestic documents, which are kind of
related to the MJ12 documents to some
extent. And um Ryan and his and his dad
did extensive uh forensic analyses of
those. Those are not just photographic
negative. Those are actual pieces of
paper that that you can study them. Uh
but what you can say with the MJ12
documents, so they they first appeared
in uh 1984,
they were probably sent from somewhere
near Kirtland Air Force Base. And so we
know that that's connection to the
notorious uh Richard Doty and they were
sent to a filmmaker and friend of Bill
Moore researcher guy named Jamie
Chandere who has his own had his own
very interesting Intel connections I
believe. So, so that's how we get them.
Now, the thing is you set this the stage
for this. So, in the late 70s and the
early 80s, the UFO field is being rocked
by by two major developments. So, one
was the the recently strengthened
Freedom of Information Act. So, in the
late 70s and through the 80s, early 80s,
uh, UFO researchers could petition the
government for documents and they were
getting thousands of pages of documents
related to UFOs. This this was a
shocking thing. You know, all through
the 50s and 60s and most of the 70s, the
government agencies, CIA, FBI, military
agencies said, "Look, we don't really we
don't do this. This is not an interest
of ours. We don't really give a damn."
And then suddenly, thousands of pages of
military failed interceptions and CIA
memos and FBI investigations. Like, it's
all there. It's like they were clearly
lying. So, that's one thing. And and so
from that perspective alone, if you're
on the side of the secrecy, you're
thinking,
are they going to shake the tree just
enough and then the right documents
going to come out and now we're screwed?
Like is that going to happen? So that
was a concern. The other prong, the
other threat to secrecy were the
researchers who were engaging into uh
looking in crash retrievals. uh people
like the late Leonard Stringfield who
was the true pioneer of crash retrieval
research but also Stanton Freriedman
also uh Kevin Randall and Don Schmidt
and um the late Don Berliner and and
then Tom Carrey and all these people. So
like there but in the late 70s there was
a lot of this was just slowly building.
It wasn't we didn't really know a lot
about Roswell at that just were just
starting to talk about Roswell but that
was a threat. So these two things and
and then in
In the wake of all of that, we get these
MJ12 documents which are allegedly memos
to to Harry Truman or a letter signed by
Harry Truman describing the formation of
this organization to manage the UFO
secret referring to uh crash retrievals
and Roswell and and all of this. And so
it, you know, you had a lot of uh
skeptics. Uh the late Philip Klass,
a man that I think was deeply deeply
connected to the US intelligence
community in my opinion, not just mine,
said, "Well, you know, Truman's
signature, that was that was not his
actual signature. It was identical to
another one." Well, uh I think they were
using autopen then as well, actually, if
I'm not mistaken. So, I don't really
know if that matters, but that was
supposed to make it like fake. It was a
fake. So, it was a hoax. New York Times
was very happy to to support that.
But, um, and there there are, you know,
legit strong researchers who do think
it's it's a hoax. Robert Hastings, who
you mentioned, very strong, very strong,
and and he he and I in the past had some
disagreements about that
and uh I I very much respect Robert's
research, so don't get me wrong there,
but he does not
he does not believe that they're legit,
and a lot of people don't. I I don't
know. I don't feel that way. I think
that I don't know about those MJ12
documents. I don't really know where I
stand on that. But I think when I look
at the majestic documents that Ryan and
and Bob collected, you you print them
all out. It's this thick. It's like an
inch and a half thick. And you just try
reading them sometime. I did this, you
know, 20 years ago. I was I was afraid
of looking at this for the longest time,
but I thought, "All right, I have to
read them." I printed them all off. I I
put them in my own little combound
collection, and I just started reading
them page after page. And they are
highly sophisticated, extremely
sophisticated, frankly. And so if you're
thinking if this is a hoax, you have to
ask yourself, who's creating this as a
hoax? All right, you have documents that
have through the decades, the 40s and in
the 50s and in the 60s all in a very
like seems exactly accurate format. Uh
the data that's in them is written in in
exactly the correct way. Um,
so it's not some guy in his basement
doing it all by himself. That's for
sure.
Yeah, there's documents in there and
actually my memory is a little more
fuzzy on this maybe than yours at this
moment, but FDR did have some statements
uh or letters I believe where he uh
expressed an awareness of this
phenomenon. There's another letter uh
supposedly from Albert Einstein
Oenheimer. Very interesting document.
Yeah, I mean those are debated and uh I
don't spend a lot of my time really
fixating on them, but I go back to them
every once in a while. Um and I I
suspect that there is a lot of truth in
them.
I do too. I wonder if they you know, you
know the name James Jesus Angleton, of
course.
Oh, yes. Yes.
So, you know, one of the founders of the
CIA, uh kind of an Allen Dulles acolyte,
a very uh deceptive and devious.
He ran US counter intelligence for
several decades. several decades and
seemed very involved in the UFO issue.
Um, and this is really interesting. He
was actually stationed um in Italy at
the time or his father was Hugh Engleton
at the time of the Magenta crash in
1933, which is really crazy.
I only recently learned this. Maybe they
get that with you and Malgrim's
interview. I think maybe that's where I
picked it up.
Uhhuh.
But there are rumors that the Knights of
Malta have something to do with the UFO
story as well.
Well, what I'm saying is yeah, they did
because because was there
and so it's it's interesting, you know,
I've heard and I don't know if this is
true that maybe he had something to do
with the MJ12 leaks. And in the 80s it
felt like largely maybe the US moved
from a strategy of um you know secrecy
and denial to flood the zone. And flood
the zone doesn't mean put out uh you
know BS. It means put out partial truths
and put out a lot put out a lot of
truth.
That is the way disinformation works.
This is something we I'm really glad you
bring this up because
uh what is disinformation? It's not the
same as lies.
Mhm.
You know, like so say we're on the
inside and we've got this secret to
protect and we are afraid like at some
point this is going to come out. So how
do we deal with this? So maybe you put
it out, but you sandwich it between
things or you stick at least one thing
in there that can be factually
demonstrated to be a hoax or a lie.
Um, and that's, you know, that's an
inoculation. It's like you get
inoculated against a disease by getting
part of a virus, but it's it's deadened
and your body recognizes it and can
fight it. So it's like you become
inoculated against the truth. The truth
is put out there, but it's sandwiched in
such a way that it's uh it's not
credible. I love that you say you're
you're immune to it and uh you know it's
interesting I think you have blue book
where it's just kind of rationalized
explain the whole thing away the cond
committee sort of kills it and then in
74 he seems to flip and they create you
know UFOs past present and future and
from then on there seems to be this kind
of outward openness on the part of the
DoD around you know UFOs and in the in
the 80s it feels like you you know you
have Rick Dodie doing all this stuff and
you have you have this sort of flood the
zone like we're actually going to
actively promote and see if and this is
peak cold warrior say yes and no I mean
you know officially the Pentagon
throughout the 70s and 80s and 90s was
like no this is nonsense do this at all
so officially speaking there was never
any uh to my knowledge a genuine
promotion of a UFO reality coming from
that institutions I just say that but
there were let's call them shenanigans
going on and you know we've
learned about Richard Dodie, which is a
really weird topic for me because um I
actually met Richard Jody once.
Okay.
Uh he's extremely gracious, genuinely
like he's a nice guy when you meet him.
Like and I and I know
I'm sure he's extremely likable. That
was his job.
He is. So, so you got to be but right
that doesn't mean he's truthful, of
course. Yeah.
Um but I do know for a fact that he has
very high respect from within um a lot
of his colleagues from the intelligence
community and from the you know the the
peripheral
um like scientists and people who worked
with him they like him um they respect
him. His own father was uh I don't know
all the details but was deeply involved
in Area 51 and with UFOs.
I didn't know that.
Yes. Yes. And Richard Dodie was kind of
brought into that as a young uh office
or young military person. So he like
when he says these days like he knows
it's true which he says many times like
I
I think he's telling the truth on that.
I think he is saying he knows it's true
because he does know it's true.
Um you know in the early ' 80s late 70s
early 80s and I'm not here to defend
this but he was doing his job. Look he
was in the military. His job was to um I
I assume protect certain secrets that
were wrapped by Kirtland Air Force Base
and the like. Paul Benowitz was very
highly intelligent man looking at some
of them and and that's what Dodie did.
So he he did kind of lead Benowitz
astray there.
Dodie also first shows up. This is kind
of a little known thing about Dodie in
1977 Ellsworth Air Force Base. Mario
Woods has an experience where he is
according to his hypnotic regression
abducted. At the very least, he ends up
10 miles away from Ellsworth Air Force
Base. Yeah. With marks on his body and
his his partner Michael Johnson in a
catatonic state.
He then goes through this whole debrief
session and guess who's there? Rick
Dodie.
And so it is interesting that I I think
a pretty at le if you're into UFO stuff,
you know, the Mario Woods case seems
pretty legit to me. It's a in a line of,
you know, all the Robert Hastings UFOs
and nukes.
Yeah. And then you have Dodie show up,
you know, a couple years later and he's
definitely scooping, you know, Benowitz.
And
yeah, and there's an Ell's a document
about Ellsworth there which has been
manipulated and that's been traced back
to
Dodie.
So at least I'm pretty sure. So,
you know, the thing is,
well, I'm not I'm I'm I'm not going to
like condemn and I I try not to wag the
finger too much at people. Like it's
easy to do that. Um, everyone's got a
job to do.
Yeah.
We have a job to do, which is to get
past the BS and to try to understand the
truth.
Yeah.
And um,
well, I always say it's it's it's
dangerous enough just going for the
truth. So, don't go ad homonym against
like, yeah, there are people who it's
like it's obvious that they're sort of
counterintel,
but like
it would be one thing if they were
clearly leading you astray on a single
thing consistently and you're like,
"Come on, dude. Stop doing that." Or
whatever. But I think, you know, some
people want you to stop your pursuit of
truth in order to just antagonize those
counterintel people or whatever. And
then you're you're sort of losing you're
going to get less close to the truth and
you're going to nuke yourself and it's
just like so it's like what do you what
do you want? Like
we all we've all grown up. We all know
the government does all kinds of stuff
and it lies and lies. I started saying
this
probably before many other people. I've
been on this for a long time. Of course,
I I I did a whole study on the history
of false flags a few years ago and um
so yes, we know there's shenanigans and
they never stop,
but is every single thing and up and and
what I'm hearing are like some some
people out there like they it's almost
like there's the implication is the
government wants us to believe in UFOs
now. Therefore,
they want and they want us to believe in
aliens now. Therefore, it must all be
black budget special ops.
That's right.
And that that the whole alien thing is a
ruse. And I'm like, that is so wrong.
You are so wrong if you do that and
you're going down a very incorrect path.
Yeah. Well, it's this reflexive if the
government says something, I'm going to
put a minus sign against it. Right.
And so, you're going to be totally
thought controlled as a result. If you
have some and maybe there is some it is
important to have the hermeneutic
understanding of where the government
stands on a thing
but but there is no the government this
is the whole thing that's true
everyone's talking like oh the but what
you have is I mean look the Pentagon
alone is a trillion dollars a year is a
mountain of labyrinths uh and fighting
bureaucracies and I can tell you for a
fact you go back to the earliest UFO
history and there's always been
factional wars on this subject within
the military within these intelligence
community. They don't all agree on
policy. They have never agreed on
policy. Um in the 1940s and early 50s,
there were factions that wanted openness
on UFOs from within that military. We
know this. Read read the old books by
Donald Kho. He actually lays it out very
well. So that was the case then, it is
the case now. And there are people we'll
just we'll just mention Lou here again
who within that system who support uh
openness and there are other people who
absolutely do not and they will fight to
the last you know the last battle that
they can. So that's the fe the fact and
so when you're getting messages coming
out of there it's not it's not like a
unified system it's like who's the
faction that's speaking there.
Yeah. It's a war that is going on and
and we need to understand this. They
don't understand that there's a war
going on inside our establishment right
now which is in real trouble.
Yep.
Okay. They're get there's a lot of
desperation on a lot of fronts, UFOs and
beyond. That's going to breed factional
disputes galore and hard um you know
battle plans from within to to disable
the other side. Totally.
I understand that.
Totally. I I couldn't agree more and I
think uh there are probably less
outright liars in the space than people
trying to frontr run the truth. So you
see disclosure is going to happen you
maybe you have to get in front of it or
something. And so I think there are all
sorts of you know factions battling on
that front.
Speaking of secret science which I agree
with you I think the second you look at
this topic for a week plus you realize
that there probably is secret science
going on and there's a real UFO
phenomena going on and those two are two
disparate threats. We spoke on the phone
once about Thomas Towns and Brown. I
don't know if you remember this.
Oh, a little bit. Yeah. Yeah.
And you told me an interesting story.
What the hell did I say? [laughter]
We I talked about how his work might
have made it into the B2 stealth bomber.
And then you had an interesting
anecdote.
I do. Yeah. Okay. So, I'll tell this.
This is true. Yeah. So, back in 2008, I
was at a conference in uh was it in
Vegas or in Denver? I think in Las
Vegas. So, yeah. and I met with a a
brilliant very cool retired Air Force
colonel with a PhD.
So, uh he had a very strong knowledge of
the UFO topic.
He uh we had a lot of interesting
conversations. I met him and I met his
wife too. He's really nice lady. So, we
sat down and
he one of the things he said is he was
part of the B2 stealth bomber project.
And I said, "Oh,
I was so like young. I was so
enthusiastic." And I just read a paper
by um Paul Lavolet. Yes.
Who is a researcher on electrogravitics
and had things to say about the B2
stealths bomber uh having incorporated
essentially basically principles of
electrogravitics to give it a form of
lift
um an additional kind of lift.
So uh yeah. So I'm sitting with this
colonel and I'm like here and he's like
closer to me than you are right now and
uh and also we were in a pretty crowded
area so there's like people milling
about you know and I'm not recording
anything. I'm just we're just talking
and uh I said have you heard this paper
by Paul Avallet talking about
electrogravitics
uh as part of the B2? And he he was so
nice, but at this moment he literally
put his hand out like this. Stop.
And he looked this way and he looked
this way
and he leaned forward and he just
whispered, "That's bullshit."
And and he wouldn't talk anything more
about it. And as soon as he said that, I
thought, "All right, that's got to be
true."
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
That's got to be true.
That's a kind of a telltale sign.
Uh definitely. Yeah. It was very
interesting moment. I didn't think I
would hit a sore spot like that or
something that sensitive, but it was
clearly very sensitive.
Yeah, it's so fascinating. And um as a
good segue to, you know, your current
work on USO, submersible objects,
Thomas Townsen Brown was actually a Navy
guy.
Yeah.
And um it seems like, you know, he was
in the Navy, I think, from like 1933 to
42. And
it seems like the Navy knew a thing or
two maybe about UFOs before the Air
Force actually did. I
It's totally possible. Yes. Um,
absolutely. For example, one USO
account, which actually the account that
started me on on uh this book project
that I've I'm in nearly done. I did the
first volume that's out. Two and three
are coming out.
was an account uh right by the Illutian
Islands near a little island called Adac
Island uh in the summer, excuse me, of
1945. So, it's uh the Pacific War was
still happening uh the European war was
done by then and there was a US
transport ship called the Delarov which
was coming back from Japan to Seattle
and it was passing by it's still in the
middle of ocean but north of it the
closest illutian island was this place
called ADAC. You can look it up on
Google Earth. Uh, and according to the
uh, primary witness who was interviewed,
a man named Robert Crawford, he and he
spoke with a number of researchers,
including Dr. James McDonald, who's kind
of a legend himself. Anyway, Crawford
said, "Yeah, we uh, the crew we they saw
this." He didn't see the object come
from the water. He saw it right after
that, but other people did see it emerge
from the water. It's a discshaped object
about 200 feet in diameter. circled
their transport ship twice, totally
silent. He said there were high winds.
This thing should have been bouncing
around in the wind. It was rock solid,
totally stable, and then it zipped off
uh to I think the east or the southeast
so fast. And he said you could see this
uh flash of light as it left. So that's
that's US Navy. You have just documented
something uh unidentified submersible
object cases. You've created this whole
database and taxonomy around them. Which
case shocked you the most and why?
There's some very excellent ones. One of
the early ones did shock me. It was from
and it was in the South Pacific. So it
was a a British vessel called the HMS
Blonde. There's an a naturalist on
board. I I liken it to, you know, in the
movie Master and Commander, there was
that great buddy of Russell Crowe, the
doctor. And so I I think of him as this
type of a guy. So he's the naturalist.
He wrote a diary. His name was Andrew
Bloxom. And he kept a very detailed
account of the of the travels of this
ship during this. They actually went
from uh from Hawaii to the UK, back to
Hawaii, and then down to the Cook
Islands and on their way to South
America. And so on the return trip from
Hawaii, they're passing the Cook Islands
and he writes in his diary at 3:30 a.m.
on August uh 12th, 1825. This is 200
years ago. He said the Night Watch
reported this
orange spherical object rise from the
ocean uh at 7°. He said it lit the the
deck of the ship so bright you could
pick a pin off the deck. It then
descended back into the water and then
rose a second time and then descended
into the water. And what's interesting,
you could you could find this as a PDF
online. You can look it up. And he,
you know, before all of that, this is
like just really detailed account of the
travel. It's very meticulous.
And after that, it's very like
conventional, very meticulous,
interesting. He published this as a
diary uh at the time. So, it's been it's
been in publication for 200 years. And
there's just this one entry of this this
he said it was red hot like a cannon
shot. It was I think about the size of
the of the moon or the sun although
there was no moon out that night so
there's no commute no uh confusion with
that. And that's it. It's just this
bizarre thing. I read this and like holy
crap. And what I I like to pair it with
another encounter from 150 years later
involving a United States aircraft
carrier
the USS John F. Kennedy which was in uh
July 2nd 1971.
It had just finished doing um series of
of u uh qualification tests which they
do periodically to stay you know
current. [snorts]
And we have this account from uh the man
who ran communications at that time. His
name is James Cop with a K. And he wrote
about this several times around 2000
2001. Uh he spoke to the disclosure
project in in 2000. So he's on record
for that. So anyway, this is what he
says. July 2nd, 1971. It's 8:30 at
night. He's running the comms
[clears throat and cough] and he said
all the in inbound communication starts
spouting gibberish. He's like, "hm,
what's going on?" And then he he's on
the the hears on the intercom some some
sailor like freaking out, screaming,
"It's God. It's the end of the world."
That's what he hears. Wow.
Yeah. [laughter]
So that gets his attention. So he goes
out uh and outside to see a glowing
orange like roing orange yellowish
reddish um I think he I'm thinking he
said it was the size of a beach ball at
arms length which would be kind of big.
It was just above the ship or maybe off
to the side. It wasn't totally clear. He
said I'm standing there watching this
for about 20 seconds. a lot of other
people. He said sailors were uh one guy
he said he had to be sedated. This was a
a really intense moment. Um and then the
ship goes to battle station uh general
quarters battle station. So he had to go
back to his comm and he didn't see it
after that but for the next 20 minutes
the ship was on battle uh on general
quarters and he uh stated that the
weapon systems went offline. he learned
later and um trying to think what else
that was essentially it. So no
communications, no weapons and and then
that ended and he doesn't know how this
departed because he didn't get to see it
but that's his story. And then he he
actually said by the time we got into
port a few days later uh the only the
only discussion about this at all was
from the ship's captain. He got on the
ship's intercom and said, "Well, as you
all know, uh, certain things happen
aboard a US naval vessel that have to
remain on the vessel and not to be
discussed anywhere else. I hope I made
myself clear, you know, something like
that." And that was it. That was it. So,
but but what was interesting made me
think of it is that this was I mean, it
sounded like it could have been the
exact same type of thing that Andrew
Bloxom back in 1825 was describing this
spherical object. And uh I guess I'll
just say you know we hear a lot of
people talking these days about orbs and
spheres and I I have to say and noticed
a large number of USO encounters do
involve these kinds of orb like
spherical objects uh which frequently
and certainly I think in the case of the
the JFK
uh engage in some kind of
electromagnetic interference and there's
a lot of that a lot of that goes on. Um,
I guess I'll just add when I finished
doing all of these uh cases and hunting
them down in all of these disperate
sources and just generally wanting to
breathe life into them. Most of these
were completely forgotten cases. But uh
had a long lot of long conversations
with my wife Tracy about this and she
said, you know, you should really look
at pull out some relevant categories for
each of these cases. And I did that. I
pulled out each case like 15 different
categories like uh special effects from
there. was it at daytime or at night
time? What what was the shape of the
object and all of this? And what I
noticed after looking at all of the
statistics and I I put a a very
amateur-ish uh spreadsheet together, but
large large but amateurish spreadsheet,
but it helped me to see patterns and um
I noticed about 10% of all the cases
involved EM interference. About one out
of 10. It's quite a lot. But one that
that percentage is doubled when I looked
at the military cases. There's one. So
there was a a a 2x likelihood that a
military encounter would have
electromagnetic interference. I'll just
add one other thing about that.
In the in the few cases where people
reported missing time with a USO
encounter, and there are such or
sightings of a being in connection to a
USO, and there's a few of those. those
those instances are four times as likely
to report electromagnetic interference.
And when I looked at these numbers, I
mean, maybe my data sample's small, I
don't know, but it's as large as is, you
know, whatever it is, but it makes me
think that these EM encounters, they're
not accidental.
They're they're kind of a tool, maybe a
weapon, like they're not it's not a
random thing.
So, um, I'm getting a little off track
here, but it's just it was fascinating
going into all of these, uh, uh, looking
at these, uh, trends and these
relationships that exist within these
sightings. Uh, there's an intelligence
and, and these guys, they know what
they're doing. They know exactly what
they're doing.
Do we have a USO crash retrieval
program? Uh the the thing that comes to
mind for me is I think Howard Hughes had
like a it was like a front company for
the CIA. It was called like Global
Marine Corporation and out of that came
the Glowar Explorer,
right? [snorts]
And uh you know we know that we've
retrieved exotic technology from the
ocean floor. So have we possibly
retrieved us?
I think yes. Uh I believe that's
probably a yes. the Glowar Explorer.
Yeah. This huge corporation, they
actually recovered a sunken Soviet
submarine in the 1970s and it was an
incredible feat because they went down
something like three miles down to the
Pacific floor. They got it, it broke. Um
but they they recovered half of it. They
actually gave a proper military burial
to some of the Soviet sailors that they
recovered. So that was an incredible
thing. And um in terms of recovering
discs, I once I received a communication
from a um a gentleman who was former US
Navy. He told me about having attended a
conference
uh not this one but another another
excellent one, the International Yo
Congress, a really great place there.
and he said, "You know, I'm I'm hanging
outside and I run to this other Navy guy
between lectures and we're just chatting
and this guy was um aboard the USS
Nautilus submarine." So, that was the
first nuclearpowered submarine. And he
said, "You know, the Nautilus went
through a retrofitting or a refitting,
excuse me, in the mid60s, which is true.
We know about this." and he said one
thing that um that we did is we had like
this we created this hatch this side
hatch to be able to acquire
objects that were
uh discs uh unknown unknown objects um
in the ocean now I mean
uh this the guy like wrote to me and
then and then he he never really was
able to follow up with this Navy guy so
he lost that whole thread so he wrote to
me and we went back and forth on it and
Um, I I reported that it's in it's in my
first volume here. I don't know if this
is true or not. Like because a Navy
submarine is not going to be able to go
down to the ocean, the bottom of the
ocean floor. That was way too deep. But
it can, you know, about 10 or 15% of our
oceans are basically ocean shelf.
And that might be a different thing. And
you might be able to um have a submarine
kind of work work that area if if this
is a true thing. Um definitely look we
have a long long history. Crash
retrievals is a really strong interest
of mine personally and there is no
question we've had a number of crash
retrievals or recoveries of these UAP.
We could do a whole interview on that
frankly there's just a lot to say about
that. Now those are retrievalss that we
know about from
land.
um you know the waters of this world are
are much more remote to us and much more
mysterious and I don't think a lot of
these stories come through. I did um
there is one gentleman that uh I did
speak to many years ago. His name is
David Noble White Horse and he was uh
did you and I talk about this?
Yeah, we did.
I thought we did. Yeah. So, and did you
interview him? No, but it made its way
into the Malmrren thing that I did and
then I realized it was actually,
you know, I think there Yeah, it was the
whole can of worms, but this I think it
was a year before Mal I think that was
actually a little off. It was one year
because it was it wasn't Bluegill Triple
Prime. I think it was one year
before 62. and he's a really interesting
character.
He's a great guy and you know I
interviewed him uh I don't know 15 years
ago and uh I can't even remember how I
found him but we talked extensively
and he was a member of aboard a US ship
called the Finch back in 1962. They were
involved in what became Bluegill Triple
Prime part of what is called Operation
Dominic. You can look this up. And uh
there's a series of high altitude
nuclear detonations. Uh this is at the
peak of like we were just going crazy
detonating these hydro massive hydrogen
bombs. It was crazy. So he said it was
uh October, this is like right around
the time of the Cuban missile crisis.
October 25th, 1962.
They were off little place called
Johnston Island. This is about 500 miles
off of Hawaii out in the Pacific. And he
said we did a detonation.
He said, "We often would have bogeies in
the atmosphere before we would do a
detonation, like that is UFOs, and they
would always disappear just before we
would detonate the bomb." So, they're
hanging out checking it out evidently.
He said on this occasion, so uh we we
had to do the deetonation and we were
all ordered below deck. This is
protocol. And then to his surprise, um
some other officer or some other guy
comes down and says, "You, you, you and
you and you. I want you out now. Uh out
on the I think the port side, one of the
sides. He says, "You are now to face
forward. You are not to look to the
left. You're not to look to the right.
Just look ahead of you and observe." And
they're like, "Okay, whatever. Orders
are orders." And so
a what they see is this long cigar-
shaped object zooming by horizontally,
and that's all he saw. Then he was doing
a cross train with radar. So later that
day or evening he's talking to the radar
guys and they're all talking about the
bogey that was seemed to be shot out of
the sky and and this is clearly what he
saw and it landed uh at some point in
the Pacific and they were sending a
series of ships to go and see about
trying to recover it.
Fascinating. So actually I I I did a
little research. I think the finch might
have been an earlier operation Dominic
test. We can workshop this live or I
don't know anybody could search but um I
there's I have a lot of reason to
believe that there were anomalous
objects that came out actually Bob
Jacobs 1964 uh you know Vandenberg case.
He was stationed at Johnston Noll a few
months before the Vandenberg case where
he saw he was a photo instrumentation
specialist. He was on Big S and he saw a
UFO wrap around Atlas 8.
That's right. That's right.
And only two years apart
and he said it was, you know, ubiquitous
water cooler conversation that a UFO
shootown was being used as a cover for
shooting down a Soviet nuke.
The scuttleb at the time by every single
person on that island when I got there,
this was engineers, technicians, um my
airmen who had been down there before
me.
We were told that what happened is the
the Soviets had launched a nuke into
orbit up above us and JFK told Krushov,
"Take that down."
So I found that to be an extremely
interesting
another firstirhand testimony.
That's wacky.
And this was around Bluegill Triple
Prime. So this was that was you know
what it this detonation that had
happened a year earlier. And then you
have the whole Malgrim testimony which I
think is very important as well. Um, I
want to ask you, so this begets all
sorts of questions around secrecy. You
know, everybody talks about the Air
Force. You have, uh, in 1947, uh, uh,
Twining writing this memo. You know,
he's the head of air material command
for the Air Force. Uh, and he's
expressing kind of earnest confusion as
to how UFO how UFOs work, but he says
they're they're, you know, uh, real and
not visionary or fictitious. The Office
of Naval Intelligence is the oldest uh
intel uh organization in the US, you
know, 1890s.
Um you know, they call it the silent
service, the Navy. Um what does the Navy
know and how deeply embedded are they in
this issue? Even the reports that came
out I think in 2020 2020 and 2021 were
Office of Naval Intelligenceled.
Yeah. Yeah. Navy I think has been deeply
deeply involved in this from the
beginning. It took me a long time even,
you know, researching this for years to
fully appreciate just how deep their
involvement was. If you go back and look
at some of the original uh books that
were published by people like Donald
Kho, he's one of the people that kind of
was my springboard. Uh he kind of talks
a lot about this. A Kho was a marine, so
associated with the Navy. And so he knew
a lot of top Navy brass. He was friends
with many admirals and uh so he had a a
real ear to what was going on there. and
described quite frequently the rivalry
between the navy and the air force. This
is very well known. I mean after the
second world war the air force was the
new organization. They had a lot of
prestige. They were the only uh branch
that had nuclear weapons. The navy
wanted their own nukes. They eventually
got it. There was something around 1949
or so called the revolt of the admirals.
This was a big political
uh fight between the navy and the air
force. So there's all there was all this
kind of bureaucratic institutional
rivalry that already existed. But it hap
it also had to do with this the flying
saucers as they were being called back
then. Uh the air force was getting all
the attention. But one thing that Kho
wrote about even back then was like Navy
people were having UFO encounters and
the Navy personnel would get really
angry because uh Air Force people would
come on the Navy ships and throw their
weight around and take over the
investigations and the Navy guys were
really resentful of this. The Secretary
of the Navy in 1950 was a guy named Dan
Kimble. He had his own UFO sighting. So
he was fight he was flying in duel uh
with Admiral Arthur Radford who's quite
famous. They were flying out from
California to Hawaii uh in 1950. I think
it was 1950. Yes. And
Kho wrote about this. So what happened
was Kimble's plane and Radford's plane
were both accosted by an object that
circled around their aircraft.
They were like a number of miles apart,
but they both had this happen. And as a
result, Kimell decided, we are going to
have our own separate investigation of
this. The hell with the air force. But
uh at least according to Aho learned, it
didn't seem to take off. Didn't really
go anywhere. But there the rivalry was
always there. I think Ross Colthart is
is somewhere here. And he ended up
having a conversation with Nat Kobitz
who was director of science and
technology for the Navy. And um this is
the end of Nat's life. I think he was
dying of cancer and he said that he had
seen UFO technology at Wright Patterson
Air Force Base and it was involved these
sort of you know um bonded metals that
were fabricated at the atomic level and
said all sorts of other interesting
stuff. So
yeah, I've I've heard about this. I've
not actually listened to it yet and I'm
I'm kind of really excited about doing
that.
General Eisenhower is called back to
duty meeting Defense Secretary James
Foresttol to discuss many vital
questions. So uh one other kind of
interesting axis around that time Navy
uh James Forestto James Forestto was a
secretary of Navy before becoming uh
secretary of defense meeting a very
mysterious untimely death.
He was murdered.
Okay, let's hear that.
He was absolutely murdered.
Did he have anything to do with the
UFOs?
Maybe. Yeah, probably. Okay, probably.
Yeah. So, uh, Forestl, this was one of
my real pet projects when I broke into
this field. And, uh, Forestl was a a
fascinating guy, a very brilliant man,
of course, uh, kind of a financial
wizard.
Uh, I think he played football at
Princeton back in, you know, as an
undergraduate, just so then he becomes,
um, after he makes his fortune,
he becomes one of those so-called dollar
a year men, uh, under FDR for the war,
basically to support the war effort. he
becomes under secretary of the navy and
then secretary of the navy at the end of
the war. and he um he was actually one
of these guys who fought against a
strong Secretary of Defense position
when when when um we were going through
the reorganization in 1947, National
Security Act uh kind of a total let's
like we're done with the republic, we're
creating the empire now people and we
got to reorganize the whole military
system. Forestall
fought tenaciously for naval
independence under a unified secretary
of defense and and the real issue was
does the sect defe have budgetary
authority over the independent services
that was that's really where the power
is and and and foresttol particularly
fought so well that he won that battle
and the secretary of defense
uh originally did not have the authority
to tell the army and the navy in the air
force what their budget would be. He
didn't have that capab so he was a weak
sect defaf and then irony of irony
forest ends up in that position as
secretary of defense. So he uh for his
entire two and a half year tenure in
that role, one of the biggest problems
he had with Truman, we tend to forget
this, was that the uh that Truman wanted
to cut the military budget
significantly. At the same time, he
wanted to expand US military presence
globally. So there kind of a disconnect
there. And the uh the joint chiefs were
saying like $15 billion, are you out of
your mind? which of course that's
nothing today, but at the time it was
also not very much. They wanted like 30
billion I think and Farstl sided with
them but he was kind of stuck
because Truman's just like just make it
happen.
And so they had a very unhappy
relationship over that. Then at the same
time
we have the flying saucers making their
appearance in in the military world and
in the American psyche. It's like we're
talking about it and
this was something that he was
definitely very aware of. It was
impossible not to be. Um I read
Forestl's published two volume diaries
uh which were published after his death.
We'll get to his death in a second. And
of course there's not not a mention of
of UFOs or flying sauces in there.
But anyway, so what what ended up
happening? So uh Forestell and Truman,
their relationship became rocky.
Truman's up for re-election in 1948.
Everyone's ass like sure he's going to
lose. Thomas Dwey the Republicans sure
win and and Forestl bad move had met
with Dwey
and it got out and Truman was pissed
like you betrayed me.
Uh but anyway, so Truman wins, shocks
the world,
tells Foresttol shortly after that,
you're done. I think in January 49, he
says, "You're out. you're out and they
give but you know publicly they give
Forest this nice uh going away ceremony
it's like you're a great American all
this stuff and this is the crazy thing
so for this is January 49
Forestl leaves this ceremony and gets
into a limousine and in the limousine is
the secretary of the air force Steuart
Simington
now Simington was like one of
Forestell's major political enemies
forestl was convinced I bet he was right
that he was being followed. Uh,
Simington was probably involved. There
was a journalist back then named Drew
Pearson who was writing stories about
Forestl and people were noticing all
throughout this time that Forestl seemed
like he was unraveling. He started
developing these weird nervous ticks. He
was said, "I'm being followed by strange
foreign looking men." He's looking
around. He's very paranoid. He started
uh put dipping his fingers into glasses
of water all the time and just wetting
his lips like there's some weird thing
going on with him. So um so he gets out
of this meeting and he goes into the
limo and there's Steuart Simington
who they hate each other and all that we
know is that Simington said this I want
to talk to you about something. No one
to my knowledge knows what actually
happened on the limo ride back. They're
going back to Forestl's office. And but
what we do know is that when Forestl got
out of that limo, he was he goes into
his office, closes the door and he's
shut in there for like hours. Finally,
his secretary or knocks on the door and
she opens the door and he's he's sitting
in his chair. He's just staring ahead at
like this blank wall and he's repeating
one sentence. What is it? You are a
loyal fellow.
So
he's out of it. So they start making the
phone calls, you know, and suddenly the
team comes and they collect him and they
fly him down to Hobie Sound in Florida.
and he's there for uh I think 6 weeks,
five, no, maybe less than that. A few
weeks. [snorts] It's been a little while
since I've remember since I've gotten
into all of this. Um at one point down
there, he apparently, we're told, tried
to hang himself with his belt. That
failed. They bring in a a army
psychiatrist by the name of Manager. I
think William Manager. He was kind of
famous. He had a clinic. Uh, and then
one of his friends, Robert Love it, a
future Secretary of Defense himself,
goes to visit him and and apparently
Forestell's first things to Love it.
First words were, "Bob, they're trying
to kill me."
So then they fly him back up to Maryland
to the Bethesda Naval Hospital there. I
think it's 16 floors. against all the
advice of the attending physicians, they
take him to the top floor cuz they're
like, "If if this guy's suicidal, uh,
that's the last place you should take
him. He should be on the ground floor."
But no, national security people said
top floor. So, he's sequestered there
now. He's visited by a few interesting
people. We all know Truman. Yeah.
Oh, one thing they certainly did is they
grabbed his diaries.
Like, that's not making it out. They
expuned the out of those diaries
before they were ever published. But um
Truman uh Forestal's successor Lewis
Johnson
uh Lyndon Baines Johnson
uh young guy named John Fitzgerald
Kennedy
and uh who else?
Forestell's own brother William was not
did see him finally was able to see him
uh after a long long time. For was never
allowed to see his spiritual adviser, a
chaplain by the name of Shehy. Father
Shehi. What What guy in a hospital is
not allowed to see his priest or rabbi
or spiritual minister? Like that's kind
of weird, right? Forel wasn't allowed.
So anyway, he's there for I think that's
six weeks. Yeah.
And uh he's getting better. He develops
a a friendship
with a one of his Navy corman guards
like they're in eight hour ships outside
his door, you know, and one of them uh
they just strike up a a really good
relationship and Forestell says, "You
know, when I'm out of here, I want you
to be my assistant." So, this is really
a good thing. So, he's thinking about
the future
and but his brother William, was it
William or Henry? Yeah, Henry. And he is
he is angry. Yeah,
that the Navyy's not letting his brother
out.
Oh, and meanwhile, over in that whole
last week, Forestell's main attending
physician was out on a at a conference.
So, the the hen house has no protection
here
really. So, anyway, Henry uh calls the
hotel, the uh hospital,
and he's staying, I think, at the uh
Watergate Hotel.
Okay. Wow.
Is that where it was? Yeah. Or the I
think that's where it was.
And he calls them and he says, "If my
brother
is not out by tomorrow, god damn it, I'm
going in and I'm and I'm going to raise
holy hell and you're not going to like
what I have to say."
So that was the that was May 21st, 1949.
Mhm.
And on the night of May 21st going into
the 22nd, that's when James Forestl did
his 16th floor bungee jump out the
window. So what happens? So what we know
is that Foresttol's Navy corman who he
was pals with who had the midnight shift
somehow went awall
and was gone.
Uhhuh.
No explanation. uh new guy comes in and
at uh 1:30 to 1:45 we are told
he opened the door to check in on the
secretary
on Foresttol and he sees Foresttol up in
his bed and he's reading uh a book and
he's looks like he's taking notes this
type of thing
he asked would you like a sedative and
and this is according to his testimony
forel said no I'm good and And and
according to the replacement corman, he
said the next time I went in there, he
he was gone. Well, he had gone out the
window. So, what apparently the official
story is that
Forestl is transcribing uh ancient
ancient Greek play uh the death of Ajax.
It's a it's actually really amazing
stuff.
But Sophocles, right? Or or who is it?
Is that that's Sophocles? Yeah, that's a
Sophocles one. and he stops transcribing
in the middle of one word nightingale I
think stops in the middle of it and
decides apparently that he must kill
himself at this very instant.
Wow.
So he he according to the official story
gets up
and I think in the there's a shower
where he could have done this more
easily but he didn't do that. He leaves
his room, goes out into the hallway.
There's a little uh a little window
there uh in behind a radiator. You know,
the radiators that that were ubiquitous
back in those days. And he takes his
bathrobe cord,
ties it
uh very tightly around his neck, ties
the other end not so tightly, I guess,
around the radiator. And think of this
is a weird way to kill yourself. Tries
to hang himself outside the window.
Yeah.
That was no suicide. I don't think
anyone's ever tried to do that. So, uh,
according to the official story, the
cord slipped off the radiator and he
just plunges to his death.
Right
now, let's look a little more
realistically here. How difficult would
it be?
I mean, Forestl had been very athletic
as a younger man, but he was small.
He's a lot more frail. He wasn't really
doing great.
Couple of big tough Navy guys or big
tough young guys grabb him and throw him
the hell out the window. then tied the
bath ripped to the radiator after the
fact. Yeah.
Yeah.
That sounds I'm absolutely convinced
that's what happened. And then this is
14 years before the the assassination of
John F. Kennedy. So you have a country
that is they're going to believe every
single thing the military says. They
just won World War II. They're national
heroes. And
uh what they said, they immediately said
it's a suicide. They followed up with a
a kind of investigation. I which I read
the transcript uh most of it anyway. the
Will Cuts uh review I think it's called.
They actually interviewed the Navy
corman who was on duty.
Uhhuh.
You think like this is your main guy.
You like you got to really grill this
guy. I think he was in for like 15
minutes and gone. Like wow.
Like thank you for your testimony, young
man. You can go.
Whoa.
There was no no no no no investigation,
no critical examination.
I believe Forest and JFK actually knew
each other from the Marshall plan uh
much earlier actually. They had had some
interactions which is uh interesting of
history
you know well I'm not sure how much I
knew about that so
I believe that though
uh uh it's so fascinating another
another forestall thread possibly
related to UFOs is I believe one of his
direct reports was Admiral Richard Bird
and so you have operation high jump
right that would be bird yeah
in 46 and and you have you know off the
coast or down the coast of Argentina you
have this this big fleet of American
ships Yeah.
Going for I don't really understand what
the story is. Like it's a very weird
story.
It's kind of weird.
Yeah.
I don't even know if I believe the high
jump thing. I I think I don't.
Do you believe like when you say you
believe the high jump thing, do you
believe it was even a mission to begin
with?
No. No. I think it was, but I I don't
believe they ran into uh basically
space laser Nazi flying.
I don't think I do. No.
Yeah. and and um because I remember I
read Bird's full statement that he gave
and if you really read the whole thing
I don't think he's really talking about
flying saucers. There was was a death or
more than one death a couple I mean it's
very difficult conditions down in
Antarctica. So that's one thing but my
my thing is like if they ran if they
were chased away
by super advanced technology well like a
year and a and two years and three years
later like we went right we went back to
Antarctica. It's not like we didn't go
back there,
right?
So [snorts] maybe there are details that
I'm missing and I I will fully like look
if someone is able to show me a really
strong case for it, I'll change my mind
in a heartbeat. I'm not committed, but I
uh to like thinking it's prosaic, but I
just don't know that I'm convinced it's
um that they ran into
Yeah, it's really it's really spotty.
It's like I think he came back and he
gave a speech, but it's unclear the
problem. He said we're we're living in a
new world now where from pole to pole uh
danger can come.
I'm paraphrasing probably badly, but he
he's talking about the fact that we have
nuclear weapons and
um and there will be delivery systems.
Everyone knew it was all going to happen
and that's a smaller we're living in a
smaller world in a dangerous world.
I don't know that he was talking about
uh aliens. Yeah.
Or you know whatever. We choose to go to
the moon in this decade and do the other
things not because they are easy but
because they are hard.
You have Danny Shehan in the audience
here, the great Danny Shehan who's done
incredible research around this. Um,
do you think you just actually did a
great show on this on your podcast? Um,
do you think there is a connection
between
JFK's assassination and UFOs? We just
had an 80,000 document drop that was
less helpful than I mean it's like well
I'm more confused, you know, afterwards
than going at like I'd rather just
listen to Danny on it.
I I liken to JFK's murder to uh Agatha
Christiey's murder on the Orient Express
in which spoiler alert everyone killed
the guy. There was there were more than
one motive. There were many many motives
to to assassinate President Kennedy.
Many. He was he was a threat on every
level you can imagine. You know, my wife
and I just rewatched JFK, Oliver Stone's
great movie just like less than a month
ago. I'm really glad back into the left.
Remember that. Um but that was that was
a great movie. And see, he brought up
the Vietnam connection which I think is
legit. He also brought up Operation
Mongoose. That's the whole Cuban
operation. That's absolutely part of it.
U he didn't bring up some other things
like there's the whole Federal Reserve
connection. Pan Kennedy was a threat on
that. uh and and the whole nuclear
connection where I think that this was
brought up in the movie uh where Kennedy
really was interested in a kind of a
nuclear reduction and maybe disarmament
uh to some extent. So so Kennedy was the
guy who made the mistake of thinking
just because he's president that he was
actually running the show. He goes up
against this national security
establishment that was like no way we're
not going to let you're not you are like
a traitor communist. that's how they saw
him and we're going to we're going to
have to kill you for our to protect this
country. That's their rationalization.
Uh but the UFO subject, yes, this is I
think absolutely must be brought into
it. Um the the interview that you're
referring to is with a gentleman who's
here. His name is Philip Lavell and he's
a very good friend of ours. He's not a
published uh author on JFK, but he he
knows that assassination as well as any
person alive. Uh no lie. and and he's a
great friend and so we talked about it
uh and about the potential UFO
connection there and uh he's he's on
board with it as well. I think he
believes that this is absolutely uh part
of the picture. You know, there was a
memo JFK uh did sign on November 11th,
so 11 days before he was assassinated. I
think it was November 11th, wasn't it?
Or the 12th.
12th.
12th. Yeah. Thank you. where he's uh
directing uh the Central Intelligence
Agency to coordinate UFO data with the
Soviet Union for for you know laudable
reasons I would say. So that was part of
his psyche right there. He was going
against the system. You look at the
majestic documents which you referred to
and there's the something called the
so-called burned memo
where uh Lancer and that was the code
name for Kennedy was described oh I wish
I could remember the exact wording of
this but an operation has to be done on
him if he's too dangerous and it and it
must be wet and that refers to wet wet
work which is assassinations.
So, um, and that was that was, uh,
written shortly before the
assassination. I can't remember the date
of that. So, yeah, I mean, I think
Kennedy, but I I don't think it was only
the UFO situation. I mean, John F.
Kennedy was is complex.
There's a lot to um to see there. And as
I I mentioned Philip Lavel, but the
reason is Philip said, you know, you
talk to JFK researchers and they
absolutely will not go there. They will
not, even to this day, they will not
want to talk about the UFO connection.
You see this in all aspects of the
alternative community. It's like, well,
I'm already taking slings and arrows
from the establishment for this. I don't
want to talk. I don't want to wear this
other albatross around my neck. But
but it it is true. And the UFO
phenomenon, look, it is it is the
elephant in the room of United States
and world history of the 20th century.
and and all the academicians, all the
mainstream historians and analysts, they
ignore it over and over again. You know,
the first director of the CIA, Rosco
Helen Carter, was into UFOs big time.
Why does no one Why did none of the
historians talk about this?
And he and he joined
the national a member until he resigned
suddenly at the moment where in 1962,
Donald Kho, his friend, they were trying
to get congressional hearings. It looked
like it was going to happen and a week
later Helen Carter says, "Uh, yeah, I'm
out of night cap. Look, the Air Force is
doing everything they could. I think we
should lay off."
Yeah.
And that was the end of that. So,
there's a story here that, uh,
establishment historians ignored for
years and years and years and years. It
is the elephant in the room. If we do
not understand, uh, the impact of of the
UFO or UAP phenomenon on world history,
we're not going to understand a whole
lot. We're going to miss a big part of
the picture.
Reports of flying saucers are nothing
new. From the beginning of recorded
time, men have been seeing unexplainable
things in the sky.
Can we go uh rapid fire through some
crashes? I just want to get a
real or hoax.
Oh, wow. All right. Well, I'll see.
Okay. Roswell.
Oh, real.
Uh Kingman.
Yes, real.
Um Kexburg.
Yep. Um, that's a good one.
I don't believe it was the bell. Some
people say the galaka.
Okay.
Uh, just because it looked like it
superficially. Uh, first of all, the
bell was not a flying device.
It was.
Yeah. It was like some sort of torsion
chamber thing, high voltage electricity
thing. It was
And it probably did use rotating mercury
um, you know, like pressurized mercury
and all of that, which is very important
for electrogravitics. and you want to
get a anti-gravitic gravitic lift. Not
my specialty. I should stop right there,
but it was not a flying device by any
means. Um, according to the the legend,
uh, you know, Cook, I think, wrote about
the hunt for zero point. That's a really
good book.
Yeah. Amazing book.
That's a really good book. and he he
broke this out uh a little over 20 years
ago.
Mhm.
And he he said according to I think this
was brought out in a a postWorld War II
trial of Nazis in Eastern Europe in
Czechoslovakia where they talked about
this and the claim was like you had a
bunch of scientists like 60 a bunch of
them died from the effects of this and
then the rest were executed at the end
of the war so they wouldn't talk.
Yeah.
That that's the that's the story. The De
Glock thing is fascinating because you
see a rig there now where maybe like a
bell-shaped thing. What I mean that it
looks like that shape. It's it's really
fascinating. And then I think he's also
documented through this Polish
journalist Igor Vitkowski who uh
documented that uh Ernest Growitz who um
was basically that this SS medical chief
who worked with directly with Joseph
Mangala and um another guy named Walter
Gerlock who is a gravitational expert in
physics. uh we're working on this
project. And so you have a gravity guy
and then you have a guy working with
like biological you know specimens doing
and we know the Nazis did like
experimental cell block 9 like they were
doing weird stuff.
They they were they were doing a lot of
like off off the off the main stream of
physics.
Totally.
Yeah, they really were. So there's a I I
love hearing you talk about this. Uh
back to Kexsburg. I guess I guess I'll
just say
uh there's something very bizarre came
down there and I don't think it was a
Soviet satellite. I do not believe that.
I do not believe that at all. Uh you
know there's Stan Gordon who's still
around. I love Stan. He's really dove
into this
and I think he's got the goods on it.
There were uh there was a local radio
station guy. I think Frank Murphy was
his name.
He goes in there. It wrecked his life.
It destroyed his life.
Ah
uh on many levels. Anyway, so Kexsburg,
I don't know what that was. I think it
was important. It wasn't just a
satellite and maybe it was something
more. Maybe it was a craft.
I have a I have a I have a weird one for
you. Aztec.
Oh. Oh, I'm I'm on the Aztec train. I
believe that one. Aztec was, you know,
was the first case that was
uh written about
Yeah. in 1950 and it was viciously
viciously smeared and debunked a couple
of years after that
by a guy named Considine. I think that
was the one.
JP Khan.
Oh, JP Khan. Thank you. Thank you. I'm
getting all of my people mixed up. It
gets tough to be an older man.
You know, a lot of stuff manager.
Yeah. JP Khan. And and um but this story
was there's I have two very dear
wonderful people uh Scott and Suzanne
Ramsey who've really done the work on
this. But they revived and resuscitated
this case. And and what they showed was
that that Khan's expose was utterly
mendacious and just driven by resentment
over not being allowed to do the story.
Yeah. He was going to break it to begin
with
and he lost it to Scully and then it was
kind of this pit pit. Yeah. And then the
the the other weirder thread is he was
family friends with Jay Edgar Hoover as
well.
Oh yeah, I heard that.
JP Khan. I did hear. So, and then you
have these FBI files on Silus Newton and
Gabau going way back to the uh I think
the 30s or something and they're they're
totally redacted. Like, so it's like why
would you have these crazy FBI files?
This whole thing uh smearing them as
these shyers, you know, sleazy real
estate investors. That's not I don't
think that's true at all.
Yeah. Um, in fact, I'm just going to
give a shout out to Richard Geldrich who
I love his research and uh I talked with
him and he
he's got stuff on this. He's going to
come out with more information.
Amazing. Well, would love to hear from
him. Silus Newton was worth $20 million
at the time,
which just for inflation. Like it's like
that guy doesn't need to hustle people
on a doodlebug oil thing. He was very
successful.
No, absolutely not.
Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, I think Aztec was
real. Uh I think that actually did
happen. You know, unfortunately with a
lot of these crash retrievals, Roswell
was the anomaly.
Yeah.
In the sense that because Roswell made
the newspaper at the time and so
it was harder like they buried it right
away.
Yeah.
But it but there were always researchers
like, "Oh, remember that newspaper
headline?" Yeah.
Like so it was always kind of there. And
then it wasn't until the late 1970s that
a few people especially like the great
late Leonard Stringfield, he's he you
asked in the beginning like who are some
of my heroes? He's one.
Yeah.
I never met the guy.
Um he was amazing.
Amazing. But anyway, so Stringfield
starts collecting and dredging up these
and he was one of the per first people
to interview and publish his interview
with Jesse Marcel Senior.
And and by the time that happened,
you're really looking 20 uh no 30 years
after Roswell. So those people were a
lot of them were still around. Some were
gone
and researchers kind of jumped in
and they found many many many people
like in the case with Aztec
uh it just didn't work out that way.
Kingman, you mentioned that before. I
just want to say that that there's no
question in my mind that Kingman was the
real thing. Raymond Fowler, still alive,
in his 90s, I think, [clears throat]
uh, was involved in
uh, contacting the uh, the primary
witness of that.
And so, I think there's some good
information on Kingman. But the problem
with all of those other cases is
compared to Roswell, we have like a
small fraction of the number of people
to be able to talk to.
And, uh, that makes it that makes it
tough for them. It shows you how managed
this subject could have been in the Cold
War secrecy era too because with
Roswell, nobody really knew about
Roswell till 1979, 198
helped popularize it. Jesse Marcel came
out. Uh but between 47 and that time it
was not in any of the UFO books.
Not only that, yes. So the UFO, you
know, um this applies to us today in our
community and in the early decades of
the flying saucers. So it was really not
an easy career move to like you know
write and and study flying saucers or
UFOs. Bad career move for the most part.
So everyone stayed away from it. And so
the people who were in it were often
like hyperconservative in a way. Like it
was very surprising. So like abductions
like no way they're not going to get
into abductions. That's like that's
crazy talk. You're talking crazy talk.
Uh crash retrievals of UFOs
[snorts]
keep that away. Yeah. they would and and
they'd been scared off of it by the JP
Khan uh hit piece certainly
uh despite the fact that
how is it illogical that with all of
these flying discs the United States
military might have gotten one.
It's really not that illogical when you
think about it. But it was absolutely
off off the limits. And when when
Stanton Friedman and Stringfield and and
others started looking at these crash
retrievalss in the late '7s, they got a
lot of push back from established, you
know, UFO researchers at that time. This
was not an easy cell.
It's still not. I mean, if you Google
That's right.
Aztec crash. It goes Aztec crash hoax.
That is the Wikipedia page of this
thing. And
you have uh Scott and Suzanne Ramsey.
That's not UFO research is managing
those pages. Of course, those are
hardcore skeptical
hardcore skeptical organizations. But
then you you give them first principles
points as to why actually maybe
something did happen at the time
and they there's never anything to say
back. It's they always well it's been
well established that it's a hoax and
it's like you that is just received
wisdom. You were literally just
repeating some party line. You've done
zero research.
No, I think Aztec really that was the
real deal.
I agree. I' I've been there and I've
been there with with Scott and Suzanne
and you see the trees have been, you
know, where the UFO is dragged out. You
see that the trees are like, you know,
have been bent over in this awkward
shape. Uh you have FBI files of the two
guys who reported on it, you know,
through Scully or whatever going back to
the 30s. So they were clearly kind of
tracking these guys, which is, you know,
really strange. What they were thrown
Newton was thrown in jail over this. Um
so yeah, I I think there's a lot. And
then Scully, people say was Scully, oh
it was like written in this sort of
flowery, artful way or whatever, but he
was the guy a lot of celebrities would
go to to give uh really kind of um you
know to tell stories where you know they
didn't want everything out necessarily.
They wanted told in a delicate way.
Yeah.
But he was approached by this possibly
consortium of scientists that were kind
of you know consolidated into Dr. G or
whatever. And it would make sense that
he would have been approached. And you
have all these people mysteriously dying
around Scully. You have Carl Flock, you
know, who's the probably a three-letter
agency guy.
I knew Carl Flock.
So it's like you do a little digging.
Other thing about Scully.
Yeah.
You read read that book. Read just like
the introduction.
Yeah.
If nothing else, it's 1950. This is a
guy who really knew things really well.
He was deeply skeptical.
Yes.
Of the United States establishment in
the military.
Yes. which is an unusual thing for a
journalist in 1950.
Yes.
Uh Scully was no one's fool. He knew
things really well. It's I would
recommend anyone find the book. Just
read that.
Yeah.
It it it reads about as fresh today as
when he wrote it back.
I agree. And you have a recording of
Silus Newton speaking uh that was the
University of Denver or some some
Colorado or something. And um so there's
so much documentation from the time, but
as as as soon as you say this is a hoax,
people just kind of kind of look away
and and and and forget about it.
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, because again, the whole thing
about being in a fringe field like this,
it's like the last thing you want to
appear is is gullible,
right?
It's like that's the kiss of death. Like
you don't look like you're stupid. I'm
going to believe every single thing. And
so there's this overcompensation that
has always happened in this field.
Yes. which is too bad because let's face
it um let's get down to the fundamental
reality here. We are dealing with a
phenomenon.
Yes,
that is beyond
us. It is a reality shattering
phenomenon and it breaks everything. It
breaks absolutely everything.
And the the reality is that we it's not
that we're being too crazy and too
friend we're not being we're not going
out there enough.
I think that's right.
That's the thing. This is a very um it's
a very powerful subject in reality. What
we UFOs, UAP, whatever you want to call
them this the but even more than that
like UFOs or UAP that doesn't really
even touch
that's right
that's nothing.
Yeah.
The the truth is there is an other
Yeah. intelligence, society,
civilization, whatever they are, they're
here. They are established.
They have bases. They have a presence.
They are global every every day.
The nationwide sightings of mysterious
drones.
Weeks of mysterious drone sightings.
You're telling me we don't know what
what the hell these drones are in New
Jersey are?
Can you make sense of the Jersey drones?
I know you covered these in various
context. Uh it's so confusing. You have,
you know,
Rogan and Shawn Ryan being like they
were looking for loose nuclear material
on the eastern seabboard. You have other
people saying, you know, we found some
uh uh uh Chinese nationals like around
there. Uh and then I think there's a lot
of reason to believe there was possibly
genuine anomalous aerial stuff going on.
Yeah. Everyone's always like, I've
solved it. I've solved it. like
everyone's like figured this thing out.
But really the thing that strikes me
about the mystery drone phenomenon was
it's like every single other UFO wave
you ever studied. In other words, this
thing happens, no one seems to be able
to explain it. Everyone's got their own
theory. Thousands of theories are out
there and then it goes away and you have
no resolution. No resolution. Well, you
know, join the club. This is how this
has been going on for many, many years.
Um there's still a lot of unknown things
about this that I'm personally I would
like to get more information about and I
don't know if we ever will. Uh the
reports of these things supposedly
coming out of the water um and harassing
US Coast Guard vessels. That's one. It
was apparently a swarm that's supposedly
came from the ocean out of the ocean. Do
we know? I don't know. But it swarmed a
Coast Guard vessel.
And you have Trump saying it came from a
garage and you know these are this very
strange place. Biden knows where they're
coming from.
Our military knows where they took off
from. If it's a garage, they can go
right into that garage. They know where
it came from and where it went. I can't
imagine it's the enemy because if it was
the enemy, they'd blast it out. Even if
they were late, they'd blast it. Uh
something strange is going on. For some
reason, they don't want to tell the
people. And they should. With Trump,
it's always hard to know because he
speaks in such a overly simplistic
singongy way where it's like, dude, I
don't know what you're saying, but uh
you know uh what
it's entertaining, but you know,
it is entertaining, but that the source
that seem to imply something kind of
anomalous, right?
Yeah, I don't really know if if Donald
Trump actually knew what these were. I
mean, may I presumably after he became
president, he might have figured out.
And by the way, notice,
you know, that the Trump and Biden
teams, they hate each other. Yeah.
And yet when they talk about this
phenomenon, they sound exactly the same.
Yeah, that's right. It's the only
difference. It's the only thing that
gets like AOC and Matt Gates to agree
and then simultaneously like the power
structures that are clamping down to
agree. And so yeah,
so I don't know. I don't know if we have
an answer to that and I I don't have an
answer to it. I I was un very
unpersuaded by the argument that they
were looking for nuclear material. I I
didn't find that believable at all
because first of all uh you had these
mystery drones over Ramstein air base in
Europe. You had them over uh Lakeen
Heath and in in the UK and there there
were a lot of more reports of them
having sightings in California. One of
the problems with this is it's really
hard to know are we looking at the same
phenomenon. Uh when you when you look at
all the massive UFO or UAP reports, it's
it's really hard to know like are all of
these legit? So, how do you how do you
actually see the patterns here? Is is
the European aspect of this related to
the New Jersey uh tri-state area aspect
of it and is that related to the
California? I don't know because it's
the who is doing the actual shoreshot
research and nailing these cases down,
getting field investigators out there
confirming. We have a lot of stories, a
lot of people throwing videos out there
and I was in as much confusion as
anybody else on that.
Where do you think disclosure is going?
Because, you know, you've been in this
field for for decades. Uh I'm sure when
you get into the field to begin with,
you start to gather data and you start
to probably think like why is no one
earnestly eng why why isn't the
mainstream media taking this seriously?
And then you you probably think, oh,
disclosure is maybe right around the
bend or something. And so now I hear
maybe a slightly more pessimistic
Richard Dolan or where where are you
where are you?
Well yeah sorry like I [laughter]
I have wonderful brilliant friends who
say Richard you know look look on the
bright side a little more [laughter] and
and I do I do I do once a week I
actually will look on the bright side of
things. So one out of seven days and I'm
I'm there. No seriously um you mentioned
our media. So, one thing that I I have
definitely concluded a long time ago,
like we, you know, we like to think of
our media, media is supposed to be the
watchdog. They're the press. They inform
us. And, you know, we all kind of know a
little bit better now, but really what
when you look at the media, it's it's
part of a system that must maintain
itself. You have a system that is we
have a very complex society with a lot
of interlocking parts that really do
kind of need each other to to make them
go. uh not just to keep the lights on,
but you need that and you need all the
logistical systems in place and you need
all the financial systems to to be
working properly and that's how we live.
That's how we eat our food and that's
how we make our money. [snorts]
And disclosure
uh to a lot of those interests is a
threat. It is a threat. uh is may it may
not be a threat to you or to me in the
immediate sense, but think about someone
who's who's sunk trillions of dollars
into a military infrastructure or an
energy infrastructure or a
transportation infrastructure.
Disclosure could could upset a lot of
that. It could make some of those in
investments maybe worthless or at least
lose a lot of money.
Like we we don't really think about this
enough. And so it is it's a danger to
that established society. Some people
may say, "Well, the hell with it. I
don't really care." Okay, well, I get
that. But those guys who own it do care
and they're going to they're going to
fight every step of the way to protect
their financial interests and also their
everything else, the political stuff.
And so, and the media is part of that
system. Media is part of that system. It
always has been. You know, I I earlier
today I was doing a lecture. I quoted
late Katherine Graham who was the owner
of the New York Washington Post for many
years and she famously said, you know,
look, we've this is in the 80s, late
80s. She's like, "Yeah, yeah, we we work
with the intelligence community all the
time to manage to manage information."
And it was it was known. It was not even
apologized for. So that's that's our
media. And that's not even for me to
criticize the media. That's just for us
to like see it for what it is.
So I don't think we're going to really
see a media
uh I mean this this think about since
2017. So you have Leslie Kane, Ralph
Blumenthal, and Helen Cooper. They write
the really breakthrough article for the
New York Times. two of them and and we
were all like, "Is this disclosure?"
This was kind of an amazing thing. I was
blown away by it. I was I was really
caught off guard. It was amazing. But
what happened in the aftermath? Really
nothing. Nothing. Nothing at all. No uh
no [clears throat] deep in uh
journalists like investigations by
journalists of the mainstream. you had
this very moderate, measured,
controlled, often skeptical response to
that where months and months and months
would would uh pass before another
article would would come out. Sometimes
it' be like a skeptical editorial in the
New York Times and things like this.
That's that's the nature of their
investigation. So, they clearly were not
interested in following up. There were
no prime time news specials on this,
like none of that stuff. So, you have to
wonder this. We've always said, even the
skeptics would say, "Well, this would be
the biggest story of all time.
Okay, so now we're we're we've got a a
glimmer of it. Where are you guys? And I
think we know that's not a a actual area
that they want to open up because it's
too dangerous. So, back to disclosure.
Uh I don't believe that we are going to
ever see an honest voluntary disclosure
from the US government. It's not going
to be voluntary. It could be if their if
their backs are pressed to the wall by
let's say [clears throat]
powerful revelations that become that
become too unrealistic to deny let's say
a senior level
recent or active US government official
maybe maybe a Pentagon person
uh Matt Kovitz was would be an
interesting one but he's now he's gone
y
so but something along that level
maybe. But those those people are tough
to get.
They're very they're very tough to get.
Um yeah, I'm with you in the
frustration. I I I met with um one of
the lead op-ed people at the Wall Street
Journal maybe a year ago and I was
trying to convince her that she should
write about this topic and that this was
a very worthwhile important topic. I was
telling her about the nuclear
connection. She she did express some
interest and I think she was, you know,
earnest. I don't think she was like
dogmatically opposed to the subject. And
uh it's funny she she said oh we have a
consultant for this stuff uh said this
guy's name is uh you know David Spurggle
and um this guy did the you know NASA
UAP panel in 2023 probably associated
with the whole you know the secrecy and
then uh uh um he said he said to her
apparently you know he uh he told us
that it you know it was all um light
reflections and temperature inversions
and I was like oh my god like Don Menzel
was saying the same thing in the 50s and
it was probably working on the became
mainstream media proponents back then
and where it's like literally snapshot
to today.
So yeah, think about it. So the
Washington Post, one one of the
establishment publications has a a deep
system deep state scientist you could
say who's managing this topic for so she
has to defer to him,
right?
Basically is what you what it sounds
like.
Yes. Yeah.
So that's that's how the whole thing's
managed.
You got your talking points. Um, after
after having researched uh uh this topic
for as long as you have, Richard, um, is
there a science fiction book or movie
that most accords with your worldview?
I'm looking at my wife right now.
[laughter]
Uh,
well, there's a few a few movies and
shows that I think are really neat. Hey,
you know, I co-authored a book with
Bryce Zable. Uh we did After Disclosure
about 15 years ago and he of course
co-produced the TV show Dark Skies which
was a really great show. He they did one
long season in the late 90s. Uh it's
tough to compete with the X-Files but
they did a did a good job of the kind of
inside machinations of an MJ12 group. Um
I actually really like what they did
there. [clears throat] That's almost 30
years ago. Uh Steven Spielberg 20 years
ago did Taken which I think was a very
very good good work
on that. Um, I'll just put this out now
because I'm a fan of him and I and I
talked to this man. There's an author
named Lou Baldin who uh I love I love
Lou's work and he's he's he's it's crazy
to read him because uh he is a
selfdescribed contact and I don't I
don't usually hang out and work with
contactees. It's really not my thing.
But Lou's work uh fascinates me.
Absolutely. And I have no problem saying
this. So he in the 90s mid 90s he writes
a book called In League with a UFO. It's
a weird title. Like what does that mean?
And then he he subtitled it the Roswell
Incident. Like this book has nothing to
do with Roswell, but he was trying to
like market it. 1997 it gets published.
Roswell was the 50th anniversary. So
fair enough. But you read this book.
It's insane. He says, "Well, I um I got
the material for writing this book from
a a gentleman who gave me some papers
totally uh cy about like this. and he
writes an insiders
story of how the committee studied the
flying saucer that came into their
possession after Roswell,
the scientists, all the crazy stuff
about the alien ship, how surreal it
was, all the crazy conscious genius
level alien gadgets as he calls them
that baffled these scientists, the
political arguments. And I'm thinking,
if this is fiction, this is the best
damn fiction in UFOs anywhere. And it it
would be and [clears throat] is it true?
And well, to this day, people discuss
it. I've I've communicated with Lou.
I've talked with him and uh he's he's
still around and I I really like him.
And I I think I believe him. I think I
believe this man. Um somehow he gets
this information. He's he can talk about
I'm going to try to interview him one
day. You should, too. He's He's worth
it. Uh, and then 10 years later, he
writes this even crazier book. It's
insane. It's called A Day with an
Extraterrestrial, who has a name. The
extraterrestrial's name is Milton.
Whoa.
Like, that's a good name. So, Lou Lou
writes it and he's like, "Yeah, I'm
doing my daily walk in the park where I
live." And uh, this crazy guy accosts me
and says, "Hey, I remember me." He's
like, "I don't know you at all." "Yeah,
yeah, you know me very well." "Well, I
don't think I know you at all. Get the
hell away from me." Next thing you know,
he's been paralyzed. He's floated,
levitated into a ship. No one sees it.
And he goes for an entire day on this
crazy Alice in Wonderland adventure.
This is Alice in Wonderland for
Euphology. This book, A Day with an
Extraterrestrial. If Lewis Carol were to
write about UFOs, this is the book you
would write. People do not realize just
how wild it is. Is it true? I don't
know. It's It's a great read and I find
myself returning to it over and over
again. You're welcome.
Yeah, that's what I I've never heard a
better plug.
It's a great book.
I want to pivot a little bit. You've
been on this interesting kick around
China and UFOs. To many of us, I think
China is somewhat of a black box when it
comes to this this topic. you know,
people talk about the threebody problem,
this famous, you know, science fiction
trilogy, or I guess that's the first
book of the of the trilogy. Um, and
there are a couple of journals from
China that people are aware of, but
you've done kind of a deeper dive.
I did. Yeah, I did actually this for uh
the members of my website. So, I like to
do special projects for that. I we got
Richard Members.com. Great people there.
I And I and I'm always like working on
that those projects as well as what I do
on YouTube and and in my books. So I
thought you know I've always been
interested in uh understanding the inter
all international dimensions of this
phenomenon and that includes
international research and China is as
much a black box to me as as you're just
saying now and I thought I don't really
what what can I learn
I mean I I want to do the same dive on
Russian eupfology as well but I started
with a better knowledge of that and with
Chinese eupfology I felt like I knew
next to nothing and I thought why why is
that why do I know so little about what
the Chinese UFO history is. Well, yeah,
I just discovered it's really quite
fascinating. So, there's still a lot
that I don't know, but what I can
definitely say to you, it, you know,
everything revolves around the the death
of Mao Zong in 1976. So, there's pre-MAU
and up to that point, you could not
absolutely not no way ever research UFOs
in that country. It was absolutely no
way. uh the whole subject was off limits
because I mean it seems to me it was a
challenge to the authority of the
communist party and and a challenge to
the fact that the party was in control
of everything and so what are these
things flying around they're American
they are extraterrestrial whatever it is
we don't like to acknowledge it and they
did not ma then dies and of course uh
with many aspects of Chinese society
certain floodgates did open up one of
them was a massive massive absolutely
massive almost national interest in
UFOs. Uh to this day I think this is a
very very popular topic in China but
it's it's managed very differently now
than it was in the 70s. So when Mao
first died you had Chinese researchers
u a number of different ones. You had a
kind of very scientific materialist you
could almost say Marxist uh version of
understanding this subject.
But what I what you find is that
culturally among the grassroots
Chinese people they are into like
contact cases big time uh into like
metaphysical aspects of this subject in
ways that you wouldn't think for a
communist country where spiritual
beliefs are not particularly uh
encouraged or or even tolerated at
times. But yet this became a huge thing.
So all through the 80s you get the uh
development of on the one hand very like
solid like muon type you know Chinese
research where they're they're
researching sometimes military
encounters
uh and publishing some of these. So I I
was able to find some of these. There
was a a Chinese researcher by the name
of Paul Dong who wrote a really great
book uh in the early early 1980s on this
and I think you can find a PDF of that.
Um it's out there. But anyway, and
there's a few other like random Chinese
journals that that you can get some of
the information here in the west. But
basically, long story short, through the
80s and 1990s, China had an organization
known as a Fallon Gong. Many of you know
of this uh that grew so massively. So
the falong gong was essentially doing um
kind of like a version of tai chi um
movement with a very like almost like
yoga but taichi it's you know you could
probably do it outside on your mat and
that's what they would do but it was
such a massive national movement
millions and millions and more millions
and the fallen gong had very explicit
UFO extraterrestrial related beliefs
that's what made them a little different
and this movement became so big the
Chinese government really became afraid
of it. This is you know you had Tianan
Square remember that 1989 where all of
the openness that had been happening
through the 80s
became
uh kind of grew and grew and morphed
into a public demonstration wanting
you know open and complete freedom of
expression and that was very very
severely crushed. So all through the 90s
in the aftermath, the falling gong goes
on their rise and they were ruthlessly
shut down in the late 90s in in almost
the exact same way. Chinese the Chinese
Communist Party decided this is way too
much of a threat. We absolutely cannot
allow this and we we must crush this and
they did crush it absolutely completely.
The whole thing that my biggest takeaway
from all of that was that we talk about
disclosure here in the United States uh
disclosure in China is I really I'm sure
would be perceived as such a major
threat
to the government vastly more vastly
more than any anyone in Washington DC
would perceive to the United States
structure of power. So uh it had to be
suppressed in China and Chinese
eupfology to this day is basically had
its has its teeth taken out. I mean it's
very very tame. It's very managed. It's
very controlled and and it's also one
thing that you would have to add is the
the People's Liberation Army uh the
Chinese army Chinese military they are
very sophisticated uh in tracking UFO
reports. Very very sophisticated. They
are integrated I think in all of like
the Chinese research civilian uh
organizations. They're collecting
everything and they have a multi-ter
system by which they organize these
reports. So they they collect then they
have they bring them to like a a central
uh clearing house where they study and
analyze them and then they bring them to
a final uh repository where they keep
these. Uh we don't get any of that
information. I don't think any of that
really comes out but they they're very
very sophisticated. they have got they
are on top of managing
uh their UFO data and that's really one
reason I think why we we don't really
get anything out of it. I tried you know
looking u you know we can do Google
translate you can translate website
pages but you cannot get to the Chinese
cases. It's it's I don't think it's
means maybe some people can but I can't.
It's so fascinating and it it it does
beg the question of, you know, why is
the the this Dark Forest, you know,
trilogy, the threebody problem allowed?
Uh, you know, you they they can clamp
down on whatever literature they want
and it doesn't exactly paint the
cultural revolution in the most, you
know, the rosiest of of ways. It's sort
of
Well, yeah,
I have I I I want to respond to that
because I think um
what what we're seeing is nothing is
black and white anymore. We're in a
world and China is part of this too
where things are in change. We're we're
in the midst of an AI revolution. We're
in the midst of all of the kinds of tech
revolutions going on and a global
communications revolution has been
occurring. It continues to happen. So
just because a government, whether it's
the US government, the Chinese
government, the Russian,
just because they say we don't we don't
want to recognize this doesn't mean that
they're able to prevent it. They can't
really prevent it 100%. Uh I think what
we're seeing is a series of adjustments
being made by all of the governments um
in in all these ways. Uh I think you see
them fighting defense uh as it were.
That that's certainly the US as well.
People will say, you know, this guy says
he's taking all these NDAs and all of
this and yet he's talking about crash
retrievals, isn't he breaking classified
security regulations? And and what I
what I suspect, I mean, I don't know,
but I think what happens is you've got
factions all over the place. You got
factions in the US Pentagon, probably
multiple fact, not just two, probably
many. And and some people have
supporters who are enabling them to say
certain things. Other people in in that
same structure who probably be dead set
against it, but they didn't win that
battle. And so certain things get out.
And I I'll guarantee it's probably very
similar with China. They have to they
have to
play the game. They can't just slam down
all the time and say this is how it is
forever. We're in a a world that is in
flux. We just have to recognize there
are there are other sides of this. And
I'm not advocating for one thing or
another. I'm just saying it is it's a
little complicated. But when you have a
a system that is designed to support us
like media,
the media is part of the system. So it's
been captured. We all know long ago been
captured. like there, you know, you had
some watchdog journalists that maybe
some of them are still out there. You're
one. Um, but in terms of establishment
journalists,
uh, they've everything's captured by the
system because it must protect itself.
The system must protect itself.
Yeah.
So, you know, when you get these the
skeptics out there, they they fit right
in perfectly. They serve the system as
well. It's funny you you have you know
people like Vanavar Bush talked about in
UFO lore kind of all the time. You know
Robert Sarbacher said he was you know
part part of the program initially it
would make sense if we had a UFO program
it would be adjacent to our atomic
program. He was head of you know the
office of strategic research and
development at the highest level for for
FDR and Truman. Yep.
And uh he wrote a a paper called the
endless frontier. And I almost think if
you read that that that paper, that
essay through the lens of UFO
technology, maybe it's like, oh, the the
frontier is actually super endless and
um this thing needs to be, you know, how
this tech gets developed needs to be
managed by, you know, these central
groups like, oh,
and they are convinced like they're the
guys to do it, right? They're smarter
than we are. They know better,
right? Uh we can argue whether they do
or don't, but that's their position. And
so they're not they're not ever going to
like voluntarily just say, "Oh yeah,
here here you go." Yeah.
It's not going to happen.
Yeah. I have a weird crash for you. I
don't know if you're familiar with this
one, but um uh South Haven uh uh Long
Island uh in the 90s. Okay. Do you think
that
by Brook Haven National Labs?
That's right. By Brook Haven National
Lab. There's a man named John Ford.
Okay. Who I'm sure you know this. Maybe
maybe some listeners do, too.
Yeah. I mean, I I actually think that's
that's a real possible one.
Okay.
Yeah. There's a Long Island UFO group.
Uh
he headed it
and they actually there there may be
more than one of those that may have
happened on Long Island. I grew up on
Long Island. My my backyard there.
I didn't know about it at the time.
Yeah, that was kind of
You think there were more than one?
Well, I think they believed there were
more than one. I think that's
fascinating. Ford group thought so
because that was the first um particle
accelerator in the US uh which is the
cosmatron at Brook Haven National Labs
and you hear you know defin UFOs are
definitely attracted to nuclear and then
I wonder if you could generalize that to
tip the spear science and to high energy
physics and particle accelerators.
To think yes.
I think so. Yeah. the the Long Island
crash, I think it was supposed to be
by Morish's Bay. Okay.
I think that's what the year. And um
yeah, I believe I'm a little fuzzy on
this, but I do know like there was a lot
of there were eyewitnesses who talked
about massive security presence around
that area at that time
and uh John Ford looked into you know he
was they really destroyed his life. M
so John Ford
I used to I used to be um on sometimes
some good terms with the the late Elaine
Douglas who was a very close friend of
John Ford. Ela Douglas in her own right
was a really cool lady. Tough, smart, uh
someone you don't screw around with. She
could get angry like I remember that.
But toward the end of her life, she and
I were were much closer.
But anyway, she knew John Ford very
well. And I know she was a strong
believer in this uh reality of the Long
Island crash, but Ford was, it really
does look to me that he was totally set
up
uh with this kind of wacky plot to kill
a member of one of the uh I think the
Nassau County or is it the Suffach
County
uh city council, whatever, whatever uh
governing body by poisoning his
toothpaste with radioactive material.
Jesus.
Like, are you kidding me, man? So, he
gets accused of this
and he's I don't even know if he's alive
anymore.
But he was incarcerated for decades.
Oh, that's nuts.
He might still be alive.
That is so my
It's um It just seemed
I I haven't really dived super deep into
this, but it really looked like they
just went after him. And
that's not
now was he was he just that unstable and
he was like getting kind of crazy and I
don't know but I don't I don't think so.
It seems really wrong what they did to
him. It's
so wrong. You hear of these historical,
you know, Galileo type case, people who
seek truth and then they get persecuted
by the establishment and then
you hear stories like that, modern
stories and and UFOs.
Well, we we like to think, oh, we're so
much better now. Like we're not any
different.
Yeah. The problem with our country, our
world, is that we like to tell ourselves
we live in a democracy and we we like to
tell ourselves, oh yeah, we got natural
rights and government rights and and so
the problem then becomes for those
people who've always controlled things.
It's like, all right, how do we deal
with this?
Oh, we deal some good public propaganda,
create public relations. You know,
Edward Bernay's nephew of of Sigman
Freud who creates that whole industry
for massive public manipulation. And so
that's okay. Check. Uh and then all
these other things to get around the uh
formal restrictions on their un untrable
pursuit of power.
And so it's just a game, you know, it's
like all right, we have this pretend
democracy.
That's really what it is. And both parts
are true. Like we we u we have certain
democratic elements to our world. Okay.
Um but ultimately we all kind of see
it's it's very tightly guided and
manipulated
and and and
in a
naturally hierarchical
social organization and ours is it
always has been anytime you have
concentrations of wealth that are going
to be unequal and it's since we
for 12,000 years since we both started
collecting ourselves into societies
that's always been the case, you're
going to have hierarchy. Sorry, but
there's just it's inevitable. And those
people with the money are going to
control things. And so they never give
up
and they're just it's like, how do we
work our way through this system now?
How do we manipulate the system to keep
it going? All right, let the people
think they've got freedom. Good for
them.
Yeah.
That's what they do.
Yeah. It's like the
And we're surprised when we see that
there are these injustices happening
today. It's like that shouldn't be.
Yes. Yeah. It's a it's a weird, you
know, it's like the left is always
talking about, you know, government
overreach and then the right's talking
about, you know, corporate overreach. Uh
and uh you
Yeah, it used to be the opposite, by the
way.
Yeah, it used to be the opposite, which
the left used to talk about the
government overreach and Oh, no. The the
corporate overreach and the right used
to talk about
government overreach. Exactly.
Kind of like switched around.
They have. And then and and and now it's
it's just a sort of seessaw where you
know the the only constant is the rich
gets richer and the poor gets poorer.
But it's a sort of hypnotic like, you
know, rearranging the deck chairs in the
Titanic or something.
Um,
but I was thinking about our
conversation yesterday. We talked about,
you know, this amazing history of
unidentified submersible objects. You
have this incredible chronology. One
case that you've covered before that,
which I think connects to us, is uh the
Pasigula case where you have these two
fishermen who were abducted. I didn't
realize this until recently. Pasigula
was uh uh right next to the uh largest
production of nuclear submarines at the
time in the US.
That's that's right. I don't know if it
still is, but that's right. And um
actually, well, that's a good case. And
and um in the second volume of my study,
which will cover the 1970s and 80s. So
there's a
you know, maybe I'll make more of a
reference. I might throw a little bit
more about Pascula in there. It's not,
in my opinion, technically USO case
necessarily, but a week or two later,
there was a genuine USO incident right
there.
Oh wow.
Right there. And that is in my book and
it's a good it's a really good case.
It's really really good.
So, um, but I do make a reference to
Charles Hixon and Calvin Parker. They
were the witnesses for that. They were
the abductees for that.
And, um,
yeah. So, basically what you had with
that, they are seeing they're fishing.
Uh I think Hixon at the time was in his
40s. Cal Parker was like 19 years old
and they're doing a fishing thing early
in the morning and they see this uh
dome-shaped kind of craft like a almost
like a cone, maybe a cone-shaped craft,
I guess, and it's hovering above the
water.
It's off the coast of Mississippi. And
they are um they're abducted. And for
the longest time it was only Charles
Hixon who was supposedly abducted but
Cal Calvin Parker years later I think
indicated that he was too. The thing
about that is uh couple of things. So
the being that they described is very
bizarre looking. It's got like a carrot
ears and a like it's a weird looking
weird looking creature. Very bizarre
look. You I wouldn't think of an alien
looking. It looks like It looks like a
1950s version of an alien like in one of
those bad movies, which is the one thing
about it like you just don't want you
you look at that and you cringe. Oh
guys, like is this what you saw? But
look, it's what they said they saw. But
what's interesting about it is
they were they reported this to the
police, local police,
which many people know. And
the the guy the deputy sheriff on duties
like he's kind of suspicious of them.
Mhm. So he leaves a recorder in in the
room where they're alone. They don't
know this. They don't know they're being
recorded and they're just talking very
honestly with each other like
like and Cal Parker is freaking out.
They're like, "Holy crap, how do we do
this? How do we process this is and so
they totally convinced
the law enforcement there that they were
honest and sincere."
Yeah.
So it and you know and and for many
years Kell Parker just kind of
disappeared for a while. He he
reappeared toward the end of his life.
But Charles Hixon did lots of interviews
and like you know I' I've watched the
guy. I've listened and read his
interview transcripts. He's
I think he was telling the truth. You
know
it's fascinating. Yeah.
Do you ever um does naval surface
warfare crane ever come up for you? Are
you familiar with that facility?
Not related to the glowar bit is it? Or
I don't know if Well, you actually
reported on that. You did as part of
Richard Dolan intelligent disclosure
like and subscribe. Maybe I use
different terminology.
You you talked about well I think this
guy Randy Anderson who I um interviewed
who went deep into an underground
military base which you've you've
covered.
Yes. No, he's he is fascinating guy.
He is fascinating and um you know that
was not really on a lot of people's
radars that complex at the time. I think
it's still there's very little.
You're talking about the thing down in
near in Puerto Rico in the uh
No, I'm getting mixed up.
2014 2015 it was taken down underground
to this and then taken to a skiff that's
an off planet technologies.
Oh, I never took notes on I don't think
so. I should probably revisit this.
Well, yeah. I don't know. Well, it's a
complex that's it's a complex that's
very interesting. I have, you know, a
couple of Navy friends and they say some
spooky stuff goes on there. So,
I'm gonna I'm gonna data mine you about
this when we're done talking. So,
yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We'll do it.
Okay. Um, well, Richard, this has been
an absolute honor. Uh, yeah, I can't
thank you enough for your time and uh,
yeah, I mean, you're just an absolute
wealth of knowledge.
I love talking to you, man. You are
you're very easy to do this with and,
uh, I you're a wealth of knowledge in
your own right. Like, your knowledge of
1940s
uh, like World War II era stuff. Very,
very impressive.
Well,
I really enjoy hearing you talk.
Standing on the the shoulders of giants
and
that's what we all do.
Yeah. Yeah,
we said that before we started or
but it's true like that's all we ever do
we stand on. You asked me who some of my
inspirations are. I'm going to tell you
right now. So,
when I started with
before before I got into UFOs, uh I was
into a couple of academic guys that I
really love. Max Vber, great sociologist
from a century ago, was very very
important to me. Still is.
Yeah.
Uh his his ideas still resonate with me.
His whole idea of rationalization of the
world. I think about this a lot.
Age of disenchantment.
Yes. Exa. Exactly. Yeah. Absolutely.
Yes.
In fact, that whole thing I was 21 years
old when I first read VBER and I read
him talking about disenchantment of the
world
and that's what that hooked me.
So, it's kind of cool that you mentioned
that.
Um,
yeah, a lot of other kind of uh
important thinkers of the past, I guess.
But within within UFOs,
uh, I'm I'm like an admirer of a lot of
all the o OGs. you know,
Donald Kho was probably number one in
that. I went through all of his books
very carefully.
Um, James and Coral Lorenzan of APRO,
um, very huge admirer of them. And
Edward Rupelt, his whole story is just,
uh, interesting and very early death of
a heart attack at age 37. Kind of
are you conspiratorial about that or his
death? Rupelt
possibly.
Okay. Yeah.
Some people are like, no, no, he died.
He had he did have a previous heart
attack before that.
Okay. But the thing about Rupelt that's
weird
he he absolututely
was pressured to basically debunk his
own book.
Yeah.
And and and there's no question about
this. So you read 1956 he does the
report on unidentified flying objects
which was flew in the face in many ways
of the official Air Force position. He
he ran Project Blue Book. He was in a
position to talk about this and he's
making it clear throughout the book.
It's like
yeah we were baffled by this. This
scared the hell out of us. This was
amazing. That blew my mind. Like again
and again and again. Very uncomfortable.
So what ends up happening, uh, Kho is
the guy who writes all about this. He
brings this out because he was in touch
with Rupelt and and Rupelt was on board
with all of the kind of pro-UFO um, uh,
public statements right up until around
I think the middle of uh, early 1958.
Okay, so for 56 and 57 he was gung-ho.
Uh starts to become a little cold in 58
and Kho's noticing what's up with Rupelt
and other people like what's up with
Rupelt? Well, he was working at Northrup
at the time and he was under pressure
and he ends up in 1960 publishes his
second re his revised version of his
book which all he ended up doing was he
tacked on three chapters at the end of
it. Ah,
and the the chapters are
I mean written in a completely different
manner.
They're very like the the original book
is very like it's measured. It's mature.
The three chapters tacked on is like
smoric and goofy and just he's he's he's
uh smearing people including Kio and
he's
just like very unlike
uh the writing that preceded it
as if he was coerced or pressured.
Yes, that's right. and he publishes that
and he trashes UFOs at the end calls it
I think the space age religion or myth
myth of the space age and then he dies7
years old
it's crazy well you there are other
cases like that you have you know Philip
Jay Corso you know he had 24 hours to
edit the day after Roswell written
co-written by William Burns
Jay Burns
and and he had written another thing you
know Dawn of a new age or whatever and
and so you have this like managed
version and then this more more pure
version. And we talked about Aztec
earlier, William Steinman.
He was a employee at one point.
He was he was an employee at at Yeah.
And they were he was pushed out because
of his his UFO research and could never
get a job in aerospace after uh writing
that book, which I
would love to vindicate. I think that is
a a great UFO research book.
Yes, it is. It is
because Wikipedia says that the, you
know, Aztec thing is a hoax. You know,
he you throw the baby out with the bath
water.
Yeah. Before the Ramsies rehabilitated,
Steman did wrote a really big fat book
on it.
An amazing book that covers all sorts of
interesting stuff around MJ12. And
he sure did.
Yeah.
Yeah. So, um yeah, I talked with Simon
one time and I really really uh I liked
him a lot. There
all kinds of stories like all kinds of
really crazy stories that come out.
Um other people I've admired and
continue to admire. Um,
one of them is still alive. Her name is
Linda Moltino.
Oh, yeah.
Linda, Linda is a one-off. There's no
one else like her. She is one of a kind
and uh she's brave.
She puts herself out there all the time.
She's investigated. She
uh I just admire her. And and by the
way, if you ever get to hang out with
her, just let the lady talk. She has got
the like more amazing
personal stories
because the thing about Linda is
all the older guys always like Linda.
Uhhuh.
Like all the military guys.
Well, she's brilliant.
Uhhuh.
No BS about her,
but they they feel that they can talk to
her.
Uhhuh.
And she listens and she's and she's
brave. And so she's collected all of
these amazing encounters. Like some of
them are just kind of crazy. And I I
just like I sit and I just listen. I
just listen.
Uh I've been really lucky that I can get
to to do that with her. She's uh one of
a kind. An amazing amazing resource,
a gem of a human being in uh our field.
Um I don't know a lot of other people
I've really uh truly admired. Tim Good
is one.
I I got to know Tim a bit and um he's
he's not he's not well these days and I
I I wish him the best.
He must be a little over 80 at this
point.
Yeah, about that. Yeah. And um he's abs
he's just retired, but but Tim was a
real gentleman and a a really a gent a
gentleman and a smart guy.
Um this is the field of UFOs. Like I I
look back and I think what a what an
amazing little ride I got to have just
just because I I thought I got the bug
and I thought I would write a book and I
get to meet these people. Stanton
Freriedman was another one. Although
Stanton I'm just going to say this
uh always liked him, always respected
him.
Yeah.
But Stanton was a little bit of a
gatekeeper with me when I first broke
into this field. Really?
I will say that. Yes.
You know,
it's he didn't he didn't sort of just
give you
it was all about Bob Lazar. Oh, because
you were you expressed genuine interest
in those anti
in 2001.
Yeah.
So, uh I still had nice black hair,
big round glasses. I had all that going
on. So, I did my first uh my my first
public appearance was actually in
Laughlin, Nevada in March of ' 01.
And my second one was right after 911.
Okay.
And it was in St. Louis and Stanton was
there. We had like honestly probably
like 15 people in attendance at this
whole thing. Like I flew out there. Stan
was there, a couple of other folks.
How old were you at the time?
Uh 39, I think.
Okay.
I just turned 39.
Yeah. So, uh and you know, we didn't
there's no social media, so things were
slower, you know. I two appearances in a
year. I was like, "Wow, that's great."
Yeah.
Um so, I mean, I'm there and Stan
like I'm sitting alone with him and he's
checking me out. He's like, "Who is this
guy?" Because I just written a a book,
big fat book, and uh he's like, "So,
what's your opinion on Bob Lazar?" And
the fact was I didn't really have one. I
mean, I didn't know enough. I had spent
the last five years just trying to
figure out from 1941 to 1973. It was
like, Lazar, are you kidding me, man? I
I didn't really know yet. And I was, and
by the way, I was scared out of my mind
entering the UFO field back then because
I knew
I wrote this like it was a good book on
the early part of the
the cover up, but like I at when I
published that book, I knew nothing
about the 1980s and 1990s. I knew I
didn't have time.
I didn't have time. So I was afraid like
people are going to ask me all these
questions and I don't know what I'm
going to say. And and Bob Lazar was one
of them. I was aware this was a big
thing, but I didn't
I hadn't really spent enough time to
know.
Mhm.
And so and I resented though Stan like I
knew where he was coming from. He wanted
me to come down against Lazar
and I was like, you know, don't I I
think I said like I'll decide to send my
own time.
Mhm. Well, that's right.
And I let him know like you you can't
don't bully me, man. I'm not going to
take to it. Uh we we always had a fine
and cordial relationship. I wasn't
really close with Stan
like other people were. Uh but,
you know, I I I think he learned to
respect me over time. It took him a
little while.
Yeah.
One one thing was he realized like cuz
everyone's attacking him over MJ12 and
and he realized, oh, Dolan's kind of
like okay with MJ12. So, he he suspected
I was kind of an ally there. Uh-huh.
The the other thing I was just going to
say about Stan though,
uh, and this is a bit of a problem, the
fact that he was so hardcore against
Lazar to me signified a larger problem.
Yeah.
Which is that look, you go to research
Roswell.
Good.
Yeah.
Great. In fact, and it's really good
that you did that. But why in God's name
would you think the story stops there?
Yeah, of course.
All right. So, you have the craft. It
It's obviously going to be studied.
Yes. under great secrecy. Yeah, that's a
given.
Yeah.
So, let's look for some stories here.
And and he just always seemed to like
shoot them down.
Well, it's kind of intellectually
disingenuous to say simultaneously I
believe they're see covert reverse
engineering programs and then also say
the one guy with probably the most
coherent story around having worked on a
craft is 100% wrong. You have to think
probabilistically. And so I give it give
it some probability above zero if you
think the first thing
and he fixated like on the education
on the education because he was educated
at MIT and it was personal I think I
think he was like what did I do to get
my degree at MIT I think that's exactly
right
a little ego yeah it yes I think so and
and he kept using the word fraud over
and over again and I'm just like this is
not helpful
right and there is something that
happens in with UFO research too where
by that time I think Freriedman he had
gotten in with I don't know probably a
lot of you know interesting characters
in government and
he was very good friends with Bill Moore
William Moore
he was good friends Bill Moore who
admitted at at muon in the late 80s that
he you know helped with the mess up Paul
Benowitz Moore I'm not going to defend
or attack him but Moore always said and
and and Greg Bishop wrote about this in
a really good book called Project Beta
that's amazing
Moore said I allowed my I've allowed
myself to get involved with those people
because I believed I had the ability to
separate the from the candy as he
put it.
So he he thought, at least this is his
his explanation,
that he he was going to deal with these
people because he wanted to get to the
holy grail himself,
right?
And Bill Moore was the uh the hot shot
UFO researcher of the 1980s. Yeah.
People so often forget.
Um
and it was Robert Hastings, by the way,
who in my opinion is probably more than
anyone else responsible for the takedown
of Bill Moore. was Hastings. If you go
back through the old Muon journals of
the late ' 80s, I wasn't involved in the
field, but you know, you can read the
journals. Hastings was on, he was on
more, he knew that Moore had
intelligence connections. He knew it and
he sniffed it out. And I and I
personally think
I'm sure others know this better than I
do, but I think that Moore by July of
1989 when he was at the Muon Symposium
there, uh the gig was up like he
couldn't there was no way he's going to
keep this going anymore.
So, he just kind of came out. That's
what I think. H that's fascinating.
Yeah. You also have you have the guy
Chase Brandon who wrote Cryptos the
Dundrum.
I think he was working on a script at
one point with Stanton Freriedman and so
you have these interesting
Oh yeah. with Stan
with these interesting sort of overlaps
where in the beginning you start off
super reverent and iconoclastic and then
maybe you get soft or something.
Yeah. Thanks for bringing me back to
Stan. That was all I was going a little
off there. But yeah, um I mean I having
said all of that, look, I admire and and
always respected and liked Stanton
Friedman and his his contribution to uh
what we where we now are at is extremely
important.
Yes.
And uh but you know, like I I once read
Marilyn Monroe couldn't cook. You're
going to hold that against her? You
know, she's Marilyn Monroe.
Uh everyone's got their things where
we're not we're not 100% perfect.
Yeah, of course. and uh and and so
but yeah, Stan was someone that was
important to me and um anyway, I'm kind
of tailing off here.
No, I I love it. This I could talk to
you for hours. Well, uh uh Richard, this
has truly truly been an honor and uh
hope hopefully we can do it again at
some point and uh thank you for doing
everything. Go subscribe to Richard
Dolan Intelligent Disclosure on YouTube.
This is on Spotify and Apple too or
I think so. You know, I'm not that good
at uh at organizing.
Wherever it is on social media, but I
know it's on YouTube. I check it out on
YouTube. Buy his new book on USOS.
Volume one is out. Two and three are
coming. Uh it's amazing. And buy all his
other books, too. He's written some
incredible I don't know. UFOs in the
National Security State.
Yeah. Yeah. They're all like little
babies of mine. They're I love them all.
Uh and um I The thing I love most is
probably writing the books.
Yeah.
I mean, YouTube is fun. Yeah.
Uh, conferences, talking with people is
fun, but I actually mostly enjoy just
riding.
Well, keep going.
Putting that out.
Keep doing what you do. All right.
Thank you, Richard.